{\rtf1\ansi\deff10
{\fonttbl
\f0\fswiss System;
\f1\fmodern Fixedsys;
\f2\fmodern Terminal;
\f3\fmodern Modern;
\f4\fscript Script;
\f5\froman Roman;
\f6\fswiss Small Fonts;
\f7\froman MS Serif;
\f8\fmodern Courier;
\f9\fswiss MS Sans Serif;
\f10\fswiss Arial;
\f11\fmodern Courier New;
\f12\froman Times New Roman;
\f13\fnil Wingdings;
\f14\froman Symbol;
\f15\fnil WP Phonetic;
\f16\fnil WP MathExtendedB;
\f17\fnil WP BoxDrawing;
\f18\fnil WP IconicSymbolsB;
\f19\fswiss WP Greek Helve;
\f20\fnil WP MathExtendedA;
\f21\fnil WP CyrillicA;
\f22\fnil WP OverflowSet;
\f23\fnil WP Japanese;
\f24\fnil WP MathB;
\f25\fnil WP IconicSymbolsA;
\f26\fnil WP Arabic Sihafa;
\f27\fnil WP MultinationalA Roman;
\f28\fnil WP CyrillicB;
\f29\fnil WP MultinationalB Roman;
\f30\fmodern WP Greek Courier;
\f31\fnil WP MathA;
\f32\fnil WP ArabicScript Sihafa;
\f33\froman WP Greek Century;
\f34\fnil WP TypographicSymbols;
\f35\fnil WP Hebrew David;
}
{\colortbl;
\red0\green0\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue0;
\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue128;
\red0\green128\blue128;
\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;
\red255\green0\blue0;
\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;
\red255\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;
\red255\green255\blue255;
}
${\footnote $ Contents}
#{\footnote # Contents}
+{\footnote + 00001}
\keepn \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i \f12 Contents\par \cf3 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \qc \f12 \b \cf0 WinDEU 5.24\b0 : Windows DOOM  Editor Utilities\par \par based on the code of\par DEU 5.21: DOOM  Editor Utilities\par \pard \par \par \uldb [1] Introduction\uldb0 \v INTRODUCTION\v0 \par \uldb [2] Starting WinDEU\uldb0 \v STARTING_WINDEU\v0 \par \uldb [3] WinDEU Main Menu\uldb0 \v MAIN_MENU\v0 \par \uldb [4] The Level Editor\uldb0 \v LEVEL_EDITOR\v0 \par \uldb [5] WAD file description, flags, etc...\uldb0 \v WAD_FILE\v0 \par \uldb [6] Special DOOM Areas.  Lifts, Doors, and more!\uldb0 \v SPECIAL_DOOM_AREAS\v0 \par \uldb [7] How to try out your new level(s)\uldb0 \v TRY_NEW_LEVELS\v0 \par \uldb [8] Troubleshooting\uldb0 \v TROUBLESHOOTING\v0 \par \uldb [9] Tutorial\uldb0 \v TUTORIAL\v0 \par \uldb [10] Tips\uldb0 \v TIPS\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ [1] Introduction}
#{\footnote # INTRODUCTION}
+{\footnote + 00002}
K{\footnote K Introduction}
\keepn \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i [1] Introduction\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \qc \f12 \b \cf0 WinDEU 5.24\b0 : Windows DOOM  Editor Utilities\par \par based on the code of\par DEU 5.21: DOOM  Editor Utilities\par \pard \par WinDEU is an extremely powerful Windows based editor that enables you to add your creativity to one of the most exciting PC games on the market...\par \par \qc \b D   O   O   M\par \b0 \'a9 id software\par \par \pard (Please read the file README.TXT first.  It contains important information about copyrights and trademarks.)\par \par WinDEU is based on the DEU 5.21 source code (for about 60%). The current version of WinDEU support \b DOOM1\b0 ,  \b DOOM 2\b0 , and \b HERETIC\b0 .\par \par This help file is based on the DEU 5.21 documentation file, and has been updated with WinDEU new features and dialog boxes.\par \par See also:\par \tab \uldb [1.1] Installing WindDEU\uldb0 \v Installing_WindDEU\v0 \par \tab \uldb [1.2] WinDEU Features\uldb0 \v WINDEU_FEATURES\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ [1.1] Installing WindDEU}
#{\footnote # Installing_WindDEU}
+{\footnote + A:00001}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \tx2265 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i [1.1] Installing WindDEU\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \tx360 \fi-360 \li360 \cf0 There are currently two versions of WinDEU:\par \par \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab A Windows 3.1 (Win16) version, zipped in \f1 \fs18 W16DEU52.ZIP\f12 \fs24 .\par \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab A Windows NT (Win32) version, zipped in \f1 \fs18 W32DEU52.ZIP\f12 \fs24  . You need Windows NT or Win32s for Windows 3.1 to run this version. WinDEU32 is faster than WinDEU, thanks to 32-bit memory management.\par \par Instructions to install WinDEU:\par \par \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Create a directory to install WinDEU\par \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Unzip \f1 \fs18 W16DEU52.ZIP\f12 \fs24  (or \f1 \fs18 W32DEU52.ZIP\f12 \fs24 )\par \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab If you want 3D controls in the dialog boxes, copy the \f1 ctl3dv2.dll\f12  (and/or \f1 ctl3d32.dll\f12 ) file from the \f1 ctl3dll\f12  directory to your Windows system directory (usualy c:\\windows\\system).\par \fi-1800 \li2160 \i IMPORTANT\i0 :\tab Don't put the \f1 ctl3dv2.dll\f12  (and/or \f1 ctl3d32.dll\f12 ) in the WinDEU directory, or the 'dll' will tell you it's no correctly installed when you start WinDEU.\par \fi-360 \li360 \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Edit the \f1 windeu.ini\f12  file to suit your configuration (entering your doom/doom2/heretic directory is essential).\par \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Add an WinDEU program item in one of your program group.\par \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab RunWinDEU by clicking to program item.\par \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab If you are new to WinDEU, look at the 'Tutorial' in the help menu.\par \par \par See also:\par \pard \fi-360 \li360 \tab \uldb Starting WinDEU\uldb0 \v STARTING_WINDEU\v0 \par \pard \tx360 \fi-360 \li360 \par \fi0 \li0 \page
${\footnote $ [1.2] WinDEU Features}
#{\footnote # WINDEU_FEATURES}
+{\footnote + A:00002}
K{\footnote K WinDEU Features}
K{\footnote K  Features}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i [1.2] WinDEU Features\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \tx1605 \cf0 Full Function Level Editor\par \li396 Most doom structures can be edited. (Things, Vertices, Linedefs, Sidedefs, Sectors, Demos, more...)\par Create a Level From Scratch.\par Modify existing id levels or user created levels.\par *NEW* Contextual menus with Right mouse button.\par \li0  \par Special Features\par \li396 Insert a Predefined object\par \li792 Rectangle\par Nsided Polygon\par \li396 'DragnDrop' stretching and shrinking of sectors.\par Scale and rotate sectors, linedefs, vertices, or things.  \par Quickly define an area (selection box) and mass select everything in it.\par Sector floor/ceiling height distributor for easy stairways.\par *NEW* A toolbar with bubble tips\par *NEW* UNDO/REDO functions\par \li0  \par Diagnostic Tools\par \li396 Detects WAD errors.\par Warns you if you've forgotten player start things.\par Can automatically correct some problems.\par Use this to fix those problem wads, even if you created them with other editors.\par \pard \tx1170 \fi-792 \li1188 \b \i Note\b0 \i0 :\tab If the other editor uses nonstandard constructs you may not be able to take the WAD back to the other editor.\par \pard \tx1605  \par WAD File merging capability.\par \li396 Load and Merge multiple levels into a single WAD file.\par \li0  \par Import RAW data into DOOM object and save it in a PWAD.\par \par Renumber Maps to different Episodes and Levels.\par \par Much Much More!  \par \par \i Try it and see.  Just WinDEU it!\par \i0 \par \page
${\footnote $ [2] Starting WinDEU}
#{\footnote # STARTING_WINDEU}
+{\footnote + 00003}
K{\footnote K Starting WinDEU}
\keepn \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i \f12 [2] Starting WinDEU\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 WinDEU may be started by executing WinDEU in the Program Manager, or be creating an icon for the program. Sorry, but there's no "install" program yet.\par \par \pard \tx0 \tx735 \fi-792 \li792 \b \i Note\b0 \i0 :\tab \b VERY IMPORTANT\b0  for you guys who never read help files: WinDEU need to know where is the DOOM.WAD (or DOOM2.WAD) file. So, you *MUST* edit the \f1 \fs18 windeu.ini\f12 \fs24  file and modify the line "main=..." to set up the path of your Doom main wad file.\par \pard \fi-396 \li1188 Example:\tab \f1 \fs18 main=c:\\games\\doom\par \pard \f12 \fs24  \par WinDEU [options]\par \li396 Start WinDEU with the default IWAD file, DOOM.WAD and no PWADs.\par \pard  \par WinDEU [options] file <PWAD file> [<PWAD file>...]\par \li396 Start WinDEU with the default IWAD file and the PWAD file(s) given.\par \pard  \par WinDEU [options] w <IWAD file>\par \li396 Start DEU with the specified main IWAD file (DOOM.WAD or DOOM1.WAD).\par \pard \par See also:\par \tab \uldb [2.1] Command line parameters\uldb0 \v CMD_LINE_PARAMS\v0 \par \tab \uldb [2.2] Preferences settings\uldb0 \v PREFERENCES\v0 \par \tab \uldb [2.3] Initialization file\uldb0 \v WINDEU_INI\v0 \par \pard \tx0 \tx396 \tx792 \tx1188 \tx1584 \tx1980 \tx2376 \tx2778 \tx3174 \tx3570 \tx3966 \tx4362 \tx4758 \tx5154 \tx5556 \tx5952 \tx6348 \tx6744 \tx7140 \par \page
${\footnote $ [2.1] Command line parameters}
#{\footnote # CMD_LINE_PARAMS}
+{\footnote + B:00001}
K{\footnote K Command line parameters}
K{\footnote K  options}
\keepn \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i \f12 [2.1] Command line parameters\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \fi-792 \li792 \f12 \b \i \cf0 Note\b0 \i0 :\tab The command-line options of WinDEU are just for compatibility with DEU. WinDEU allows the change of nearly all these parameters in the new preferences dialog box, but for the current session only.\par \par  \b \i Note\b0 \i0 :\tab The effect of the Boolean options (i, s0, ...) may be reversed by using a '+' instead of a '-'.  For example, '+i' means 'no info bar'.\par \par -help\par \fi0 \li396 View command line options without entering WinDEU.\par \pard \par -a\tab (-addselbox)\par \li396 Additive selection box.  Objects will be added to the current selection (when you use the selection box) instead of replacing the current selection by what is in the box.\par \pard \tx1080 \fi-720 \li1116 \b \i Note\b0 \i0 :\tab With WinDEU, you can easily use an additive selection box with the SHIFT key, so this option is now obsolete. See \uldb Mouse Commands\uldb0 \v MOUSE_COMMANDS\v0 \par \pard \par \fi-396 \li396  -d\tab (-debug)\par \fi0 Debug mode.  Will produce a log file of warning messages to help track down LineDefs that have problems.  The number of the bad LineDefs will be listed.  This file will be called "\f1 WINDEU.LOG\f12 ". The log file will also have timestamps.\par \pard \par \fi-396 \li396  -e\tab (-expert)\par \fi0 Expert mode.  Doesn't ask for confirmation of some operations (e.g. deleting an object or rebuilding the Nodes).\par \pard \par i   (infobar)\par \li396 Display the info bar in the level editor.\par \pard \par q   (quiet)\par \li396 QUIET! suppresses the sound made when you select or mark an object.  Use it if you're in a library :)\par \pard \par qq   (quieter)\par \li396 QUIET^2!  Complete silence.  WinDEU will not make any sound, not even for warnings. Enjoy the Silence...\par \pard \par z <zoom>   (zoom)\par \li396 ZOOM.  Specify initial zoom setting.\par \pard \par c   (color2)\par \li396 Use the alternate color set for displaying the Things.\par \pard \par w <main wad file>   (main)\par \li396 Specify name of main wad file (e.g. DOOM.WAD).\par \pard \par file <pwad, pwad, ...>\par \li396 Load patch WAD file(s), just like with DOOM. Note: Patch wad files may also be loaded from the "File" menu.\par \pard \par pw <pwad>   (pwad)\par \li396 Add ONE patch file to be loaded.\par \pard \par sf   (splitfactor)\par \li396 Adjust scale on the nodes builder.  This parameter is for those techie types that like to fiddle with things.  There is no need for the average user to worry about this parameter.  (The default value of 8 is the same value that id software uses.  A number less than 8 means "more balanced" and a number higher than 8 means "least splits".  Use this parameter at your own risk.  We recommend the default value of 8.) \par \pard \par s0   (select0)\par \li396 Select object 0 when switching modes.\par \pard \par config <ini file>\par \li396 Specify an alternate DEU configuration file other than WinDEU.INI\par \par \pard 3d\tab (3dcontrols)\par \li360 *** WinDEU NEW ***\par \li396 Don't use the 3D controls style in the dialog boxes.  This looks better, but you need a dll.\par See \uldb Installing WindDEU\uldb0 \v Installing_WindDEU\v0 \par \pard \par dl (drawlength)\par \li360 *** WinDEU NEW ***\par \li396 Draw the moving LineDefs length in Vertexes and LineDefs editing mode.\par \pard \par bp (buildpriority)\par \li360 *** WinDEU NEW ***\par \li396 Set the priority of the nodes builder when rebuilding a level. This priority determines the minimum number of milliseconds the builder will compute before giving control back to Windows. If you set 20, it means WinDEU will gives back control to Windows approximately (at most) 50 times a second. Since this setting is independant of your CPU speed, you shouldn't use a value too small is your CPU is slow. For example, Using a BuildPriority of 1ms with a 386SX16 will increase the overhead of multi-tasking and the nodes builder will be slow.\par \pard \par mu (maxundo)\par \li360 *** WinDEU NEW ***\par \li396 Set the maximum number of UNDO/REDO entries in the level editor. Each UNDO entry takes as much memory as the map objects, so don't be too genererous about this one. The default value is 5.\par \pard \par gs (gridsize)\par \li360 *** WinDEU NEW ***\par \li396 Set the initial grid size of the level editor. Legal values are 0, 8, 16, 32, 64, 128, 256. Default value is 8.\par \pard \par sg (showgrid)\par \li360 *** WinDEU NEW ***\par \li396 Set the initial "show grid" option in the level editor. Be default, the grid is not shown when entering the editor.\par \pard \par ng (snaptogrid)\par \li360 *** WinDEU NEW ***\par \li396 Set the initial snap to grid option in the level editor. Be default, the "snap to grid" option is off when entering the editor.\par \pard \par See also \uldb Preference Settings\uldb0 \v PREFERENCES\v0 , \uldb Initialization file WinDEU.INI\uldb0 \v WINDEU_INI\v0 \par \f10 \par \page
${\footnote $ [2.2] Preferences settings}
#{\footnote # Preferences_settings}
+{\footnote + B:00002}
K{\footnote K Preferences settings}
\keepn \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i \f12 [2.2] Preferences settings\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 The following allow you to assign default values for textures when creating new areas in your level.\par \par walltexture <texture>\par lowertexture <texture>\par uppertexture <texture>\par floortexture <texture>\par ceiltexture <texture>\par floorheight <units>\par ceilheight <units>\par \par See also:\par \tab \uldb Initialization file\uldb0 \v WINDEU_INI\v0 \par \tab \uldb Command Line Parameters\uldb0 \v CMD_LINE_PARAMS\v0 \par \tab \uldb Preferences\uldb0 \v Preferences\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ [2.3] Initialization file}
#{\footnote # WINDEU_INI}
+{\footnote + B:00003}
K{\footnote K Initialization file}
K{\footnote K  WinDEU.INI}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i [2.3] Initialization file\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Rather than using command line arguments you may wish to save your typical settings in the \f1 WINDEU.INI\f12  file.  It's structure is pretty basic.  Use your favorite text editor to check it out.\par \par \pard \tx1080 \fi-1080 \li1080 \b \i Note\b0 \i0 :\tab The syntax of the \f1 WINDEU.INI\f12  file is a little bit different from the usual syntax of Windows INI file (i.e. comments are introduced by "#" instead of ";", no sections).\par \pard \li1080 This may be changed in future version of WinDEU, but, for now, WinDEU still uses the syntax of DEU initialization file.\par \pard \par ALL of the command line options may be used in \f1 WINDEU.INI\f12  with the exception of "help" and "config".  Commands in \f1 WINDEU.INI\f12  should be completely spelled out (i.e. quiet=true, not q=true)\par \par Also, don't put the "" in front of commands in the config file.\par \par And now your bonus for reading this far...\par \par Add the following line to your \f1 WINDEU.INI\f12  file:\par #*****************\par reminder1 = false\par #*****************\par \par This will turn off the opening reminder to read the documentation.\par \par \page
${\footnote $ [3] Main menu}
#{\footnote # Main_menu}
+{\footnote + 00004}
K{\footnote K Main menu}
K{\footnote K  menu}
\keepn \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i \f12 [3] Main menu\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 The WinDEU main menu is used to manipulate WAD files, view pictures and enter the level editor.\par \par See also:\par \tab \uldb [3.1] File\uldb0 \v FILE_POPUP\v0 \par \tab \uldb [3.2] Editor\uldb0 \v EDITOR_POPUP\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ [3.1] File}
#{\footnote # FILE_POPUP}
+{\footnote + C:00001}
K{\footnote K File popup menu}
K{\footnote K Main menu}
K{\footnote K menu}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i [3.1] File\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 The file popup menu is dedicated to wad files manipulations:\par \par See also:\par \tab \uldb Open WAD file\uldb0 \v Open_WAD_file\v0 \par \tab \uldb Save object\uldb0 \v Save_object\v0 \par \tab \uldb Build new main\uldb0 \v Build_new_main\v0 \par \tab \uldb Group WAD files\uldb0 \v Group_WAD_files\v0 \par \tab \uldb Insert RAW file\uldb0 \v Insert_RAW_file\v0 \par \tab \uldb Extract object\uldb0 \v Extract_object\v0 \par \tab \uldb List master directory\uldb0 \v List_master_directory\v0 \par \tab \uldb List opened WAD files\uldb0 \v List_opened_wad_files\v0 \par \tab \uldb Exit\uldb0 \v Exit\v0 \par \pard \tx0 \tx396 \tx792 \tx1188 \tx1584 \tx1980 \tx2376 \tx2778 \tx3174 \tx3570 \tx3966 \tx4362 \tx4758 \tx5154 \tx5556 \tx5952 \tx6348 \tx6744 \tx7140 \par \page
${\footnote $ Open WAD file}
#{\footnote # Open_WAD_file}
+{\footnote + D:00001}
\keepn \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i \f12 Open WAD file\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \tx0 \tx396 \tx792 \tx1188 \tx1584 \tx1980 \tx2376 \tx2778 \tx3174 \tx3570 \tx3966 \tx4362 \tx4758 \tx5154 \tx5556 \tx5952 \tx6348 \tx6744 \tx7140 \cf0 Open a previously saved patch WAD file.\par \par \pard \tx360 \fi-360 \li360 \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Select the WAD file in the file dialog box. The WAD file entries are added to the Master File Directory.\par \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Go to the \uldb File|List opened WAD files\uldb0 \v List_opened_WAD_files\v0  menu item to see the entries for \pard this WAD file\par \pard \tx0 \tx396 \tx792 \tx1188 \tx1584 \tx1980 \tx2376 \tx2778 \tx3174 \tx3570 \tx3966 \tx4362 \tx4758 \tx5154 \tx5556 \tx5952 \tx6348 \tx6744 \tx7140 \par \pard \fi-720 \li720 \b \i Note\b0 \i0 :\tab If you load a PWAD with multiple levels (or sounds, demos, graphics, etc..) and edit a level, THE SAVE COMMAND WILL ONLY SAVE THAT MAP, not any other levels, graphics, etc...  DO NOT name it the same as the multilevel PWAD.\par \pard \tx0 \tx396 \tx792 \tx1188 \tx1584 \tx1980 \tx2376 \tx2778 \tx3174 \tx3570 \tx3966 \tx4362 \tx4758 \tx5154 \tx5556 \tx5952 \tx6348 \tx6744 \tx7140 \par \page
${\footnote $ Save object}
#{\footnote # Save_object}
+{\footnote + D:00002}
\keepn \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i \f12 Save object\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \tx0 \tx396 \tx792 \tx1188 \tx1584 \tx1980 \tx2376 \tx2778 \tx3174 \tx3570 \tx3966 \tx4362 \tx4758 \tx5154 \tx5556 \tx5952 \tx6348 \tx6744 \tx7140 \par \cf0 Save one object to a separate WAD file.\par \pard \tx360 \fi-360 \li360 \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Enter the object name in the input box.\par \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Select the WAD file name.\par \pard \tx0 \tx396 \tx792 \tx1188 \tx1584 \tx1980 \tx2376 \tx2778 \tx3174 \tx3570 \tx3966 \tx4362 \tx4758 \tx5154 \tx5556 \tx5952 \tx6348 \tx6744 \tx7140 \par \page
${\footnote $ Build new main}
#{\footnote # Build_new_main}
+{\footnote + D:00003}
\keepn \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i \f12 Build new main\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \tx0 \tx396 \tx792 \tx1188 \tx1584 \tx1980 \tx2376 \tx2778 \tx3174 \tx3570 \tx3966 \tx4362 \tx4758 \tx5154 \tx5556 \tx5952 \tx6348 \tx6744 \tx7140 \par \cf0 BUILD new IWAD file (all 10+Megs of it) with the given file name.\par \par \pard \tx1080 \fi-1080 \li1080 \b \i Warning\b0 \i0 :\tab Do not name your file DOOM.WAD or you will overwrite the existing DOOM.WAD file and you will have to reinstall DOOM to get back your original file.\par \pard \tx0 \tx396 \tx792 \tx1188 \tx1584 \tx1980 \tx2376 \tx2778 \tx3174 \tx3570 \tx3966 \tx4362 \tx4758 \tx5154 \tx5556 \tx5952 \tx6348 \tx6744 \tx7140 \par \pard \tx360 \fi-360 \li360 \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Select to .WAD file name in the file dialog box\par \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Wait for the main .WAD file to be constructed. This procedure may take some time, because WinDEU has to write 10Mb on disk.\par \pard \tx0 \tx396 \tx792 \tx1188 \tx1584 \tx1980 \tx2376 \tx2778 \tx3174 \tx3570 \tx3966 \tx4362 \tx4758 \tx5154 \tx5556 \tx5952 \tx6348 \tx6744 \tx7140 \par \page
${\footnote $ Group WAD files}
#{\footnote # Group_WAD_files}
+{\footnote + D:00004}
\keepn \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i \f12 Group WAD files\par \cf1 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \tx0 \tx396 \tx792 \tx1188 \tx1584 \tx1980 \tx2376 \tx2778 \tx3174 \tx3570 \tx3966 \tx4362 \tx4758 \tx5154 \tx5556 \tx5952 \tx6348 \tx6744 \tx7140 \cf0 GROUP all opened PWAD files in a compound PWAD with the given file name.  Using this option, you may put several levels, graphics,  sounds, demos, etc.. in a single file.\par \par \pard \tx360 \fi-360 \li360 \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Select the WAD file name in the file dialog box\par \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Wait for the WAD file to be constructed\par \pard \tx0 \tx396 \tx792 \tx1188 \tx1584 \tx1980 \tx2376 \tx2778 \tx3174 \tx3570 \tx3966 \tx4362 \tx4758 \tx5154 \tx5556 \tx5952 \tx6348 \tx6744 \tx7140 \par \page
${\footnote $ Insert RAW file}
#{\footnote # Insert_RAW_file}
+{\footnote + D:00005}
\keepn \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i \f12 Insert RAW file\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \tx0 \tx396 \tx792 \tx1188 \tx1584 \tx1980 \tx2376 \tx2778 \tx3174 \tx3570 \tx3966 \tx4362 \tx4758 \tx5154 \tx5556 \tx5952 \tx6348 \tx6744 \tx7140 \cf0 Include a raw binary file in a PWAD.  You can use this to replace certain doom objects.  You should read DMSPEC13 (Doom Specs 1.3) or higher to know what to call the objects.\par \b \i Warning\b0 \i0 :\tab This is NOT for novices! \par \par \pard \tx360 \fi-360 \li360 \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Select the data file (.RAW) to be included in the file dialog box\par \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Enter the name of the object in the input dialog box\par \pard \tx0 \tx396 \tx792 \tx1188 \tx1584 \tx1980 \tx2376 \tx2778 \tx3174 \tx3570 \tx3966 \tx4362 \tx4758 \tx5154 \tx5556 \tx5952 \tx6348 \tx6744 \tx7140 \par \page
${\footnote $ Extract object}
#{\footnote # Extract_object}
+{\footnote + D:00006}
\keepn \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i \f12 Extract object\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Extract and save one object to a separate .RAW file.\par \pard \tx0 \tx396 \tx792 \tx1188 \tx1584 \tx1980 \tx2376 \tx2778 \tx3174 \tx3570 \tx3966 \tx4362 \tx4758 \tx5154 \tx5556 \tx5952 \tx6348 \tx6744 \tx7140 \par \pard \tx360 \fi-360 \li360 \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Enter the object name in the input dialog box\par \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Select the data file name (.RAW) in the file dialog box\par \pard \tx0 \tx396 \tx792 \tx1188 \tx1584 \tx1980 \tx2376 \tx2778 \tx3174 \tx3570 \tx3966 \tx4362 \tx4758 \tx5154 \tx5556 \tx5952 \tx6348 \tx6744 \tx7140 \par \page
${\footnote $ List master directory}
#{\footnote # List_master_directory}
+{\footnote + D:00007}
\keepn \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i \f12 List master directory\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 List the MASTER directory of the IWAD and any PWAD files, all mixed together.\par \par \{bmc MASTDLG.SHG\}\par \page
${\footnote $ Master directory}
#{\footnote # Master_directory}
+{\footnote + E:00001}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Master directory\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par This list box displays all the entries of the Master directory.\par For each entry, is displayed its name, wad file, size (decimal) and starting offset in the wad file (hexadecimal).\par \page
${\footnote $ List opened WAD files}
#{\footnote # List_opened_WAD_files}
+{\footnote + D:00008}
\keepn \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i \f12 List opened WAD files\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 List all the opened wad files and their entries.\par \par \pard \tx360 \fi-360 \li360 \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Select the WAD file you want to list in the list box\par \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Check the "Show level only" check box to display only the level entries of a WAD file\par \pard \par \{bmc WADLIDLG.SHG\}\par \par \page
${\footnote $ List of WAD files}
#{\footnote # List_of_WAD_files}
+{\footnote + F:00001}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i List of WAD files\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par The list box displays all the currently opened WAD files.\par \page
${\footnote $ Entries of selected file}
#{\footnote # Entries_of_selected_file}
+{\footnote + F:00002}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Entries of selected file\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par The list box displays all the entries of the selected file in the WAD files list box.\par \page
${\footnote $ Show levels only}
#{\footnote # Show_levels_only}
+{\footnote + F:00003}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Show levels only\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Check this check box to display only the levels entries (ExMx or MAPxx) of the selected wad file.\par \page
${\footnote $ Exit}
#{\footnote # Exit}
+{\footnote + D:00009}
\keepn \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i \f12 Exit\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Quits WinDEU after a confirmation message box.\par \par \page
${\footnote $ [3.2] Editor}
#{\footnote # EDITOR_POPUP}
+{\footnote + C:00002}
K{\footnote K Editor popup menu}
K{\footnote K Main menu}
K{\footnote K menu}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i [3.2] Editor\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 The Editor popup menu is used to edit levels and view wads entries.\par \par See also:\par \tab \uldb Edit level\uldb0 \v Edit_level\v0 \par \tab \uldb Create level\uldb0 \v Create_level\v0 \par \tab \uldb Dump_entry\uldb0 \v Dump_entry\v0 \par \tab \uldb View Sprites\uldb0 \v View_Sprites\v0 \par \tab \uldb View Wall textures\uldb0 \v View_Wall_textures\v0 \par \tab \uldb View Floor Ceiling textures\uldb0 \v View_Floor_Ceiling_textures\v0 \par \tab \uldb Selecting level to edit\uldb0 \v Selecting_level_to_edit\v0 \par \tab \uldb Viewing pictures\uldb0 \v Viewing_pictures\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Edit level}
#{\footnote # Edit_level}
+{\footnote + G:00001}
\keepn \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i \f12 Edit level\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Edit a level.\par \pard \tx360 \fi-360 \li360 \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Select the level number you want to edit.You can select any Doom1/Heretic or Doom2 level which exists in the Master directory.\par \pard \tx0 \tx396 \tx792 \tx1188 \tx1584 \tx1980 \tx2376 \tx2778 \tx3174 \tx3570 \tx3966 \tx4362 \tx4758 \tx5154 \tx5556 \tx5952 \tx6348 \tx6744 \tx7140 \par See also:\par \pard \tab \uldb Selecting level to edit\uldb0 \v Selecting_level_to_edit\v0 \par \tab \uldb The level editor\uldb0 \v Level_editor\v0 \par \pard \tx0 \tx396 \tx792 \tx1188 \tx1584 \tx1980 \tx2376 \tx2778 \tx3174 \tx3570 \tx3966 \tx4362 \tx4758 \tx5154 \tx5556 \tx5952 \tx6348 \tx6744 \tx7140 \par \page
${\footnote $ Create level}
#{\footnote # Create_level}
+{\footnote + G:00002}
\keepn \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i \f12 Create level\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Create and edit a new (empty) level.\par \pard \tx360 \fi-360 \li360 \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Select the level number you want to edit.You can select any Doom1/Heretic or Doom2 level which exists in the Master directory.\par \pard \tx0 \tx396 \tx792 \tx1188 \tx1584 \tx1980 \tx2376 \tx2778 \tx3174 \tx3570 \tx3966 \tx4362 \tx4758 \tx5154 \tx5556 \tx5952 \tx6348 \tx6744 \tx7140 \par See also:\par \pard \tab \uldb Selecting level to edit\uldb0 \v Selecting_level_to_edit\v0 \par \tab \uldb The level editor\uldb0 \v Level_editor\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Dump entry}
#{\footnote # Dump_entry}
+{\footnote + G:00003}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Dump entry\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Dump in hex/ascii an object in the Master File Directory.\par \pard \tx360 \fi-360 \li360 \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Select the object name to dump.\par \pard \par \{bmc ENTRYDLG.SHG\}\par \par \page
${\footnote $ Entries}
#{\footnote # Entries}
+{\footnote + H:00001}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Entries\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Select the entry you want to dump.\par \page
${\footnote $ Hexadecimal dump}
#{\footnote # Hexadecimal_dump}
+{\footnote + H:00002}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Hexadecimal dump\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par List box containing the hexadecimal dump of the selected entry. The first line remembers the entry selected with its size (decimal) in bytes.\par Each line of the list box dumps 16 bytes from the entry. The first number (hexadecimal) is the offset in the entry, then there's are the 16 bytes (hexadecimal), then the 16 correponding characters (ascii).\par \page
${\footnote $ View Sprites}
#{\footnote # View_Sprites}
+{\footnote + G:00004}
\keepn \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i \f12 View Sprites\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 View the Sprites.\par \pard \tx360 \fi-360 \li360 \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Select the sprite name in the list box.\par \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Use the Gamma Level slider to choose a good light level.\par \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Use the Zoom slider to select a good size. If the Sprite is too big to be enterely displayed in the window, use the scroll bars or click the mouse button inside the window and move the mouse to scroll through the picture.\par \pard \fi-720 \li720 \b \i Note\b0 \i0 :\tab You will need at least a 256 color driver to see the real colors of the Sprites.\par \pard \par See also:\par \tab \uldb Viewing pictures\uldb0 \v Viewing_pictures\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ View Wall textures}
#{\footnote # View_Wall_textures}
+{\footnote + G:00005}
\keepn \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i \f12 View Wall textures\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 View the Wall textures.\par \pard \tx360 \fi-360 \li360 \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Select the texture name in the list box.\par \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Use the Gamma Level slider to choose a good light level.\par \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Use the Zoom slider to select a good picture size. If the texture is too big to be enterely displayed in the window, use the scroll bars or click the mouse button inside the window and move the mouse to scroll through the picture.\par \pard \fi-720 \li720 \b \i Note\b0 \i0 :\tab You will need at least a 256 color driver to see the real colors of the textures.\par \pard \par See also:\par \tab \uldb Viewing pictures\uldb0 \v Viewing_pictures\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ View Floor Ceiling textures}
#{\footnote # View_Floor_Ceiling_textures}
+{\footnote + G:00006}
\keepn \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i \f12 View Floor Ceiling textures\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 View the Floor/Ceiling textures.\par \pard \tx360 \fi-360 \li360 \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Select the texture name in the list box.\par \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Use the Gamma Level slider to choose a good light level.\par \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Use the Zoom slider to select a good picture size. If the texture is too big to be enterely displayed in the window, use the scroll bars or click the mouse button inside the window and move the mouse to scroll through the picture.\par \pard \fi-720 \li720 \b \i Note\b0 \i0 :\tab You will need at least a 256 color driver to see the real colors of the textures.\par \pard \par See also:\par \tab \uldb Viewing pictures\uldb0 \v Viewing_pictures\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Selecting level to edit}
#{\footnote # Selecting_level_to_edit}
+{\footnote + G:00007}
\keepn \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i \f12 Selecting level to edit\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 The same dialog box is used to choose a Doom1/Heretic or Doom2 level number.\par \par \{bmc EPISMISS.SHG\}\par \par \{bmc MAPNUMB.SHG\}\par \par \page
${\footnote $ Doom 2}
#{\footnote # Doom_2}
+{\footnote + I:00001}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Doom 2\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Click this check box to toggle Doom1/Heretic and Doom2 level number input.\par \page
${\footnote $ Episode number}
#{\footnote # Episode_number}
+{\footnote + I:00002}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Episode number\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Select the episode number of Doom1/Heretic.\par \page
${\footnote $ Mission number}
#{\footnote # Mission_number}
+{\footnote + I:00003}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Mission number\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Select the mission number of Doom1/Heretic episode.\par \page
${\footnote $ Doom 2 map number}
#{\footnote # Doom_2_map_number}
+{\footnote + I:00004}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Doom 2 map number\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Enter the Doom2 map number.\par \page
${\footnote $ Viewing pictures}
#{\footnote # Viewing_pictures}
+{\footnote + G:00008}
\keepn \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i \f12 Viewing pictures\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 WinDEU let's you view almost any pictures from a WAD file.\par There are three types of pictures:\par \pard \tx360 \fi-360 \li360 \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab The Sprites (Monsters, objects, ...)\par \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab The Wall textures\par \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab The Floor/Ceiling textures\par \pard \par Here's an example of the dialog box of Sprites viewing:\par \par \{bmc VIEWPICT.SHG\}\par \par \page
${\footnote $ Select picture name}
#{\footnote # Select_picture_name}
+{\footnote + J:00001}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Select picture name\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Select the name of the picture you want to display.\par \page
${\footnote $ Picture display}
#{\footnote # Picture_display}
+{\footnote + J:00002}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Picture display\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par This controls contains the picture. To move the picture when it'sis too big for the control, use the scroll bars or click the left mouse button inside and move the mouse.\par \page
${\footnote $ Select zoom factor}
#{\footnote # Select_zoom_factor}
+{\footnote + J:00003}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Select zoom factor\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Zoom In/Out the picture.\par \page
${\footnote $ Select gamma correction}
#{\footnote # Select_gamma_correction}
+{\footnote + J:00004}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Select gamma correction\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Select the gamma correction level for the picture. Useful if your monitor is too dark.\par \page
${\footnote $ [4] The Level editor}
#{\footnote # Level_editor}
+{\footnote + 00005}
K{\footnote K Level editor}
K{\footnote K Editor}
K{\footnote K map editor}
K{\footnote K Editing modes}
K{\footnote K  Modes, editing}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i [4] The Level editor\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 The level editor displays a graphical "map" of the level showing lines where walls are, x's where things are (Red one are enemies, green ones are player start positions, and the rest are white.)  There is an info bar available which displays information about the mode you are in. There are windows to let you know what thing is selected and windows that let you know what you can do to it.\par \par There are four different editing modes.  They are:\par \uldb Things edit mode\uldb0 \v Things_edit_mode\v0 \par \uldb LineDefs edit mode\uldb0 \v LineDefs_edit_mode\v0 \par \uldb Vertices edit mode\uldb0 \v Vertices_edit_mode\v0 \par \uldb Sectors edit mode\uldb0 \v Sectors_edit_mode\v0 \par \pard \tx0 \tx396 \tx792 \tx1188 \tx1584 \tx1980 \tx2376 \tx2778 \tx3174 \tx3570 \tx3966 \tx4362 \tx4758 \tx5154 \tx5556 \tx5952 \tx6348 \tx6744 \tx7140 \par See also:\par \pard \tab \uldb Keyboard quick reference\uldb0 \v KEYBOARD_REF\v0 \par \tab \uldb Mouse commands\uldb0 \v Mouse_Commands\v0 \par \tab \uldb The menu bar\uldb0 \v MENU_BAR\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ [4.1] Keyboard quick reference}
#{\footnote # KEYBOARD_REF}
+{\footnote + K:00001}
K{\footnote K Keyboard quick reference}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i [4.1] Keyboard quick reference\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \b \cf0 Basic Key Set:\par \b0 \par \fi-1440 \li1440 \b Key\tab \tab Action\par \b0 \uldb Q\uldb0 \v Quit_key\v0 \tab \tab Quit\par \uldb Esc\uldb0 \v Escape_key\v0 \tab \tab Exit (no save)\par \uldb Scroll Lock\uldb0 \v Scroll_lock_key\v0 \tab Autoscroll on/off\par \uldb Space\uldb0 \v Space_key\v0 \tab \tab Scroll slow/fast\par \uldb +/-\uldb0 \v Zoom_keys\v0 \tab \tab ZOOM in or out\par \uldb Tab\uldb0 \v Change_edit_mode_keys\v0 \tab \tab Next mode\par \uldb Shift Tab\uldb0 \v Change_edit_mode_keys\v0 \tab Previous mode\par \uldb N\uldb0 \v Jump_to_object_keys\v0 \tab \tab Next object\par \uldb P\uldb0 \v Change_edit_mode_keys\v0 \tab \tab Previous object\par \uldb J\uldb0 \v Jump_to_object_keys\v0 \tab \tab Jump to object #\par \uldb M\uldb0 \v Mark_objects_keys\v0 \tab \tab Mark/Unmark object\par \uldb C\uldb0 \v Mark_objects_keys\v0 \tab \tab Clear all marks\par \uldb O\uldb0 \v Copy_object_keys\v0 \tab \tab Copy Object(s)\par \uldb G\uldb0 \v Grid_keys\v0 \tab \tab Set Grid Scale\par \uldb H\uldb0 \v Grid_keys\v0 \tab \tab Hide/Show Grid\par \uldb Enter\uldb0 \v Edit_key\v0 \tab \tab Edit object(s)\par \uldb Ins\uldb0 \v Insert_object_keys\v0 \tab \tab Insert object(s)\par \uldb Del\uldb0 \v Delete_object_key\v0 \tab \tab Delete object(s)\par \uldb F1\uldb0 \v Help_key\v0 \tab \tab Help\par \uldb F2\uldb0 \v Save_keys\v0 \tab \tab Save\par \uldb F3\uldb0 \v Save_keys\v0 \tab \tab Save As\par \uldb F4\uldb0 \v Search_key\v0 \tab \tab Search\par \uldb F5\uldb0 \v Preferences_key\v0 \tab \tab Preferences\par \uldb F8\uldb0 \v Miscelaneous\v0 \tab \tab Miscellaneous Operations\par \uldb F9\uldb0 \v Insert_standard_object\v0 \tab \tab Insert Predefined objects\par \uldb F10\uldb0 \v Check\v0 \tab \tab Check consistancy \par \fi-1800 \li1800 \par \pard \b Additional Speed Keys:\par \b0 \par \fi-1440 \li1440 \b Key\tab \tab Action\par \b0 \uldb 1,2,...,9,0\uldb0 \v Zoom_keys\v0 \tab Direct Zoom setting\par \uldb T\uldb0 \v Change_edit_mode_keys\v0 \tab \tab Things Mode\par \uldb V\uldb0 \v Change_edit_mode_keys\v0 \tab \tab Vertices Mode\par \uldb L\uldb0 \v Change_edit_mode_keys\v0 \tab \tab Linedef/Sidedef Mode\par \uldb S\uldb0 \v Change_edit_mode_keys\v0 \tab \tab Sector Mode\par \uldb >\uldb0 \v Jump_to_object_keys\v0 \tab \tab Next Object\par \uldb <\uldb0 \v Jump_to_object_keys\v0 \tab \tab Previous Object\par \uldb #\uldb0 \v Jump_to_object_keys\v0 \tab \tab Jump to Object #\par \uldb Shift-H\uldb0 \v Grid_keys\v0 \tab \tab Grid Scale = 0\par \uldb I\uldb0 \v Info_bar_key\v0 \tab \tab Info Bar On/Off\par \uldb R\uldb0 \v Ruler_cursor_key\v0 \tab \tab Ruler/Normal Cursor\par \uldb Shift+Ins\uldb0 \v Insert_object_keys\v0 \tab Insert Lines and close sector\par \uldb Ctrl\uldb0 \v Ctrl_key\v0 \tab \tab Move Pointer without selecting new object\par \pard \par \page
${\footnote $ Quit key}
#{\footnote # Quit_key}
+{\footnote + L:00001}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Quit key\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \tx360 \brdrt \brdrb \brdrl \brdrr \cf1 Q\par \pard \li360 \cf0 Quit, saving changes.  You will be asked for the name of the PWAD file.\par \pard \par \fi-720 \li720 \b \i Note\b0 \i0 :\tab If you load a PWAD with multiple levels  (or sounds, demos, graphics, etc..) and edit a level, THE SAVE COMMAND WILL ONLY SAVE THAT MAP, not any other levels, graphics, etc...  DO NOT name it the same as the multilevel PWAD.\par \pard \par \page
${\footnote $ Escape key}
#{\footnote # Escape_key}
+{\footnote + L:00002}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Escape key\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \brdrt \brdrb \brdrl \brdrr \fi-720 \li720 \cf0 Esc\par \pard \tx360 \li360 Exit without saving.  If you have unsaved change a warning message will be displayed.  May also be used to CANCEL accidentally selected functions.\par \pard \par \page
${\footnote $ Scroll lock key}
#{\footnote # Scroll_lock_key}
+{\footnote + L:00003}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Scroll lock key\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \brdrt \brdrb \brdrl \brdrr \cf0 Scroll Lock\par \pard \li360 Turn on/off the autoscroll feature. With WinDEU5.24, the scroll lock key affects only the mouse movements inside the editor window (when dragging objects or selecting with box), but the map scrolling is always possible with cursor keys and scroll bars.\par \pard \par \page
${\footnote $ Space key}
#{\footnote # Space_key}
+{\footnote + L:00004}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Space key\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \brdrt \brdrb \brdrl \brdrr \cf0 Space\par \pard \tx360 \li360 Toggle slow/fast movement speed and the scrolling speed.\par \pard \par \page
${\footnote $ Zoom keys}
#{\footnote # Zoom_keys}
+{\footnote + L:00005}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Zoom keys\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \brdrt \brdrb \brdrl \brdrr \cf0 +, -\par \pard \li360 ZOOM in or out. (Change the map scale.)   ZOOM levels range from 1/20 scale (smallest) to 4/1 scale (major magnification).\par \pard \par \pard \brdrt \brdrb \brdrl \brdrr 1,2,...,9,0\par \pard \li360 Set ZOOM level from 1 to 10 directly.   (1/1 - 1/10) \par \pard \par \page
${\footnote $ Change edit mode keys}
#{\footnote # Change_edit_mode_keys}
+{\footnote + L:00006}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Change edit mode keys\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \tx0 \brdrt \brdrb \brdrl \brdrr \cf1 T\par \pard \li360 \cf0 Switch to the Things editor, after unselecting all objects\par \pard \par \pard \brdrt \brdrb \brdrl \brdrr V\par \pard \li360 Switch to the Vertexes (vertices) editor, after unselecting all objects.\par \pard \par \pard \brdrt \brdrb \brdrl \brdrr L\par \pard \li360 Switch to the LineDefs/SideDefs editor, after unselecting all objects.\par \pard \par \pard \brdrt \brdrb \brdrl \brdrr S\par \pard \li360 Switch to the Sectors editor, after unselecting all objects.\par \pard \par \pard \brdrt \brdrb \brdrl \brdrr Tab\par \pard \li360 Switch to the next editing mode. If objects are marked, the objects they are built from remain marked.\par \pard \par \pard \brdrt \brdrb \brdrl \brdrr Shift+Tab\par \pard \li360 Switch to the previous editing mode. If objects are marked, the objects they are built from remain marked.\par \pard \par \page
${\footnote $ Jump to object keys}
#{\footnote # Jump_to_object_keys}
+{\footnote + L:00007}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Jump to object keys\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \brdrt \brdrb \brdrl \brdrr \cf0 N, >\par \pard \li360 Select the next object.  This will only work if the pointer is not on an object.\par \pard \par \pard \brdrt \brdrb \brdrl \brdrr P, <\par \pard \li360 Select the previous object.  This will only work if the pointer is not on an object.\par \pard \par \pard \brdrt \brdrb \brdrl \brdrr J, #\par \pard \li360 Jump to a specified object (enter number).\par \pard \par \page
${\footnote $ Mark objects keys}
#{\footnote # Mark_objects_keys}
+{\footnote + L:00008}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Mark objects keys\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \brdrt \brdrb \brdrl \brdrr \cf1 M\par \pard \li360 \cf0 Mark/Unmark current object.\par * Objects stay marked until you un-mark them. *\par \pard \par \pard \brdrt \brdrb \brdrl \brdrr C\par \pard \li360 Clear all marks.\par \pard \par \page
${\footnote $ Copy object keys}
#{\footnote # Copy_object_keys}
+{\footnote + L:00009}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Copy object keys\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \brdrt \brdrb \brdrl \brdrr \cf5 O\par \cf0 Ctrl+C\par \pard \li360 Copy objects.  After pressing O move the copy to where you want it and press Esc to drop it there.\par \pard \par \page
${\footnote $ Insert object keys}
#{\footnote # Insert_object_keys}
+{\footnote + L:00010}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Insert object keys\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \brdrt \brdrb \brdrl \brdrr \cf0 Ins\par \pard \li360 Insert a new object at the current cursor position. This will copy the last selected object or insert a default object.\par \pard \par \li360 There are two special cases:\par \li720 When a group of vertices are selected and you press "Ins": the editor will add new LineDefs between the vertices and will put you in the LineDefs editor.  The editor will create linedefs for all but the last line. (Use Shift+Ins if you want to close the polygon).\par \pard \par \li720 When a group of LineDefs are selected and you press "Ins" a new Sector will be created and one SideDef in each LineDef will be bound to this Sector and the edit mode will switch to the Sector editor.\par \pard \par \pard \brdrt \brdrb \brdrl \brdrr Shift+Ins\par \pard \li360 Use this when selecting groups of vertices and want the editor to close the polygon.\par \pard \par \page
${\footnote $ Delete object key}
#{\footnote # Delete_object_key}
+{\footnote + L:00011}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Delete object key\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \brdrt \brdrb \brdrl \brdrr \cf0 Del\par \pard \li360 Delete the current object or group of objects.  All objects bound to the current object will also be deleted. (i.e. if you delete one Vertex, this will also delete the LineDefs that used this Vertex).  Except for Things, you will be asked for confirmation before the object is deleted.\par \pard \par \page
${\footnote $ Grid keys}
#{\footnote # Grid_keys}
+{\footnote + L:00012}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Grid keys\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \brdrt \brdrb \brdrl \brdrr \cf1 G\par \pard \li360 \cf0 Show the grid and change its scale.  Press it again to increase the number of grid lines thus decreasing the scale.\par \pard \par \pard \brdrt \brdrb \brdrl \brdrr Shift+G\par \pard \li360 Increase the scale.\par \pard \par \pard \brdrt \brdrb \brdrl \brdrr H\par Alt-F6\par \pard \li360 Hide/Show Grid.  This only controls whether or not grid lines are displayed.\par \pard \par \pard \brdrt \brdrb \brdrl \brdrr Shift+H\par \pard \li360 Snap to grid on/off\par \pard \par \page
${\footnote $ Edit key}
#{\footnote # Edit_key}
+{\footnote + L:00013}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Edit key\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \brdrt \brdrb \brdrl \brdrr \cf0 ENTER (or RETURN)\par \pard \par Edit the selected objects.\par \par See also:\par \tab \uldb Things edit mode\uldb0 \v Things_edit_mode\v0 \par \tab \uldb LineDefs edit mode\uldb0 \v LineDefs_edit_mode\v0 \par \tab \uldb Vertices edit mode\uldb0 \v Vertices_edit_mode\v0 \par \tab \uldb Sectors edit mode\uldb0 \v Sectors_edit_mode\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Info bar key}
#{\footnote # Info_bar_key}
+{\footnote + L:00014}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Info bar key\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \brdrt \brdrb \brdrl \brdrr \cf1 I\par \cf0 Alt-F10\par \pard \li360 Show or hide the info bar at the bottom of the screen.\par \pard \par \page
${\footnote $ Ruler cursor key}
#{\footnote # Ruler_cursor_key}
+{\footnote + L:00015}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Ruler cursor key\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \brdrt \brdrb \brdrl \brdrr \cf1 R\par \pard \li360 \cf0 Toggle between Normal Cursor and Ruler Cursor.\par \pard \par \page
${\footnote $ Ctrl key}
#{\footnote # Ctrl_key}
+{\footnote + L:00016}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Ctrl key\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \brdrt \brdrb \brdrl \brdrr \cf0 Ctrl\par \pard \li360 Hold the Ctrl key while moving the cursor to prevent the pointer from selecting a different object.\par \pard \par \page
${\footnote $ Help key}
#{\footnote # Help_key}
+{\footnote + L:00017}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Help key\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \brdrt \brdrb \brdrl \brdrr \cf0 F1\par \pard \li360 Help screen.\par \pard \par \page
${\footnote $ Save keys}
#{\footnote # Save_keys}
+{\footnote + L:00018}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Save keys\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \brdrt \brdrb \brdrl \brdrr \cf0 F2\par \pard \li360 Save level in a PWAD file.\par \pard \par \pard \brdrt \brdrb \brdrl \brdrr F3\par \pard \li360 Save As... (Change Episode and Level Number). This will allow you to reassign the episode and level number of a map.  Enter a file name, then select the episode/level number.\par \pard \par \page
${\footnote $ Search key}
#{\footnote # Search_key}
+{\footnote + L:00019}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Search key\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \brdrt \brdrb \brdrl \brdrr \cf0 F4\par \pard \li360 Search for Object  (Not yet implemented) \par \pard \par \page
${\footnote $ Preferences key}
#{\footnote # Preferences_key}
+{\footnote + L:00020}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Preferences key\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \brdrt \brdrb \brdrl \brdrr \cf0 F5\par \pard \li360 Preferences. Use this to change the default values for wall, floor, and ceiling textures, and floor and ceiling heights.  These defaults are for  your current WinDEU session only.  You may change the defaults for all WinDEU sessions by editing WinDEU.INI (See \uldb [2.3] Initialization file\uldb0 \v WINDEU_INI\v0 ).\par \pard \par See also:\par \tab \uldb Preferences\uldb0 \v Preferences\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ [4.2] Mouse Commands}
#{\footnote # Mouse_Commands}
+{\footnote + K:00002}
K{\footnote K Mouse commands}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i [4.2] Mouse Commands\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 WinDEU use a *New* mouse interface. I made it to be like most Windows editing application.\par \par If you have a mouse, the following actions are available:\par \par Left mouse button (LMB)\par \li396 Mark the current selected object and unmark others.\par \pard  \par Shift + LMB\par \li396 Mark/Unmark an object (without unmarking other)\par \pard  \par LMB double click\par \li396 Edit seleted objects if pointer on an object.\par \pard  \par Right mouse button (RMB)\par \li396 Display context sensitive edit menu if pointer on an object, else display a general edit menu.\par \pard  \par Shift + RMB\par \li396 Center map around pointer\par \pard  \par Mouse move\par \li396 If LMB pressed:\par \li792 if pointer on an object, begin 'Drag mode'\par else, begin 'Stretch selection box' mode. If SHIFT key pressed, the selection box will be additive\par \li396 Else\par \li792 select new current object under mouse pointer (if CTRL key not pressed)\par \pard \par \fi-792 \li792 \b \i Note\b0 \i0 :\tab Try in the editor, and it will be easy to understand.\par \pard \par \page
${\footnote $ [4.3] The menu bar}
#{\footnote # MENU_BAR}
+{\footnote + K:00003}
K{\footnote K Editor, menu bar}
K{\footnote K  Menu bar}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i [4.3] The menu bar\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Along the top edge of the Level editing screen there is a PullDown menu bar with a number of options including File, Edit, Search, Misc, Modes, Misc, Check, Window, and Help.\par \par \uldb File\uldb0 \v EDITOR_File\v0 \par \uldb Edit\uldb0 \v Edit\v0 \par \uldb Search\uldb0 \v Search\v0 \par \uldb Things miscelaneous\uldb0 \v Things_miscelaneous\v0 \par \uldb Vertices miscelaneous\uldb0 \v Vertices_miscelaneous\v0 \par \uldb LineDefs and SideDefs miscelaneous\uldb0 \v LineDefs_and_SideDefs_miscelaneous\v0 \par \uldb Sectors miscelaneous\uldb0 \v Sectors_miscelaneous\v0 \par \uldb Modes\uldb0 \v Modes\v0 \par \uldb Check\uldb0 \v Check\v0 \par \uldb Window\uldb0 \v Window_popup\v0 \par \uldb Help\uldb0 \v Help\v0 \par  \par \b \i Edit [ALTE]\par \b0 \i0 \par  Preferences\par  Use this to change the default values for wall, floor, and ceiling textures, and floor and ceiling heights. These defaults are for your current DEU session only.\par  \par \b \i Search [ALTS]\par \b0 \i0 \par  Find/Change\par  (not yet implemented)\par  Search for a specific object type.\par  \par  Repeat last find\par  (not yet implemented)\par  Perform the search again to find the next match.\par  \par  Next Object\par  Go to next object.\par  \par  Prev Object\par  Go to previous object.\par  \par  Jump to Object #\par  Go to a specific object number.\par  \par \b \i Modes [ALTM]\par \b0 \i0 \par \tab  (Changes current editing mode.)\par \par  Things Mode\par  Linedefs & Sidedefs\par  Vertices\par  Sectors\par  Next Mode\par  Last Mode\par  \par \b \i Misc [AltI]\par \b0 \i0 \par  (Same as F8 keyboard command.  See description of F8 key above.)\par  \par \b \i Check [ALTC]\par \b0 \i0 \par  (Same as F10 key in Keyboard commands. See description of F10 key above.)\par  \par \b \i Help [ALTH]\par \b0 \i0 \par  Keyboard & Mouse\par  Same as F1 key.\par  Info Bar\par  Turn on/off Info Bar at bottom of screen.  This bar displays editing modes, grid size, and zoom levels.\par  \par  About WinDEU...\par Brief information about the WinDEU and DEU programmers and the contributed work from the net.\par \par \f10 \par \page
${\footnote $ File}
#{\footnote # EDITOR_File}
+{\footnote + M:00001}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i File\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \tx0 \par \cf0 See also:\par \pard \tab \uldb Save\uldb0 \v EDITOR_Save\v0 \par \tab \uldb Save as\uldb0 \v EDITOR_Save_as\v0 \par \tab \uldb Quit editor\uldb0 \v Quit_editor\v0 \par \pard \tx0 \par \page
${\footnote $ Save}
#{\footnote # EDITOR_Save}
+{\footnote + N:00001}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Save\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \tx0 \tx396 \tx792 \tx1188 \tx1584 \tx1980 \tx2376 \tx2778 \tx3174 \tx3570 \tx3966 \tx4362 \tx4758 \tx5154 \tx5556 \tx5952 \tx6348 \tx6744 \tx7140 \cf0 Save the level as a WAD file.\par \page
${\footnote $ Save as}
#{\footnote # EDITOR_Save_as}
+{\footnote + N:00002}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Save as\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \tx0 \tx396 \tx792 \tx1188 \tx1584 \tx1980 \tx2376 \tx2778 \tx3174 \tx3570 \tx3966 \tx4362 \tx4758 \tx5154 \tx5556 \tx5952 \tx6348 \tx6744 \tx7140 \cf0 This will allow you to reassign the episode and level number of a map.  Select the level number (see \uldb Selecting level to edit\uldb0 \v Selecting_level_to_edit\v0 ) and the file to save to.\par \page
${\footnote $ Quit editor}
#{\footnote # Quit_editor}
+{\footnote + N:00003}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Quit editor\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \tx0 \tx396 \tx792 \tx1188 \tx1584 \tx1980 \tx2376 \tx2778 \tx3174 \tx3570 \tx3966 \tx4362 \tx4758 \tx5154 \tx5556 \tx5952 \tx6348 \tx6744 \tx7140 \cf0 Exit the level editor.  Save file if changes have been made.\par \page
${\footnote $ Edit}
#{\footnote # Edit}
+{\footnote + M:00002}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Edit\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Edit objects:\par \par \tab \uldb Undo\uldb0 \v Edit_Undo\v0 \par \tab \uldb Redo\uldb0 \v Edit_Redo\v0 \par \tab \uldb Edit objects\uldb0 \v Edit_objects\v0 \par \tab \uldb Copy objects\uldb0 \v Copy_objects\v0 \par \tab \uldb Add object\uldb0 \v Add_object\v0 \par \tab \uldb Insert standard object\uldb0 \v Insert_standard_object\v0 \par \tab \uldb Delete objects\uldb0 \v Delete_objects\v0 \par \tab \uldb Preferences\uldb0 \v Preferences\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Undo}
#{\footnote # Edit_Undo}
+{\footnote + O:00001}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Undo\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Undo the last operation. The operation name to UNDO appears in the "Edit|Undo" menu item string between brackets. The number of UNDO levels is 5 by default, but can be changed in the \uldb initialization file\uldb0 \v WINDEU_INI\v0 . Remember each UNDO level takes as much memory as your map objects (meaning it can be quite a lot for big maps).\par \par See also \uldb Redo\uldb0 \v Edit_Redo\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Redo}
#{\footnote # Edit_Redo}
+{\footnote + O:00002}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Redo\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Redo the last operation.. The REDO function can only be used after an UNDO operation. The active REDOs are lost when you make a map change. The operation name to REDO appears in the "Edit|Redo" menu item string between brackets. The number of REDO levels is 5 by default, but can be changed in the \uldb initialization file\uldb0 \v WINDEU_INI\v0 . \par \par See also \uldb Undo\uldb0 \v Edit_Undo\v0 \par \page
${\footnote $ Edit objects}
#{\footnote # Edit_objects}
+{\footnote + O:00003}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Edit objects\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Edit the selected object(s).\par \par See also:\par \tab \uldb Things edit mode\uldb0 \v Things_edit_mode\v0 \par \tab \uldb LineDefs edit mode\uldb0 \v LineDefs_edit_mode\v0 \par \tab \uldb Vertices edit mode\uldb0 \v Vertices_edit_mode\v0 \par \tab \uldb Sectors edit mode\uldb0 \v Sectors_edit_mode\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Copy objects}
#{\footnote # Copy_objects}
+{\footnote + O:00004}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Copy objects\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Used to copy (groups of) things, vertices, linedefs and sidedefs, or sectors.\par \par \page
${\footnote $ Add object}
#{\footnote # Add_object}
+{\footnote + O:00005}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Add object\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Same as \uldb Insert object keys\uldb0 \v Insert_object_keys\v0 .\par \par \page
${\footnote $ Insert standard object}
#{\footnote # Insert_standard_object}
+{\footnote + O:00006}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Insert standard object\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 This function has two different modes depending upon where the pointer is located.  The two conditions are 1. Inside of a sector and 2. Outside of sectors (not inside ANY sector).\par \par See also:\par \tab \uldb Rectangle\uldb0 \v Insert_rectangle\v0 \par \tab \uldb Polygon\uldb0 \v Insert_polygon\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Rectangle}
#{\footnote # Insert_Rectangle}
+{\footnote + P:00001}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Rectangle\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 If pointer is outside of sectors:\par \li360 Enter the width and height (length) of the rectangle and WinDEU will automatically insert the vertices, lindefs+sidedefs, and sector at the current pointer location.  Think of this as adding a rectangular room.\par \pard \par If pointer is inside a Sector\par \li360 Same as outside a sector, but first sidedefs will be set to the sector they are contained in.  Think of this as inserting a rectangular pillar.\tab \tab    \par \pard \par \fi-720 \li720 \b \i Note\b0 \i0 :\tab Pressing "Ins" after inserting the rectangle will create a new sector inside the rectangle and cause the walls to be changed to transparent.  Use this to define a new area inside a sector.\par \pard \par \page
${\footnote $ Polygon}
#{\footnote # Insert_Polygon}
+{\footnote + P:00002}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Polygon\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 If pointer is outside of sectors:\par \li360 Enter the number of sides and a radius and DEU will automatically insert the vertices, linedefs+sidedefs, and sector at the current pointer location.  You can do anything from a triangle to a 32 sided polygon.  Think of this as adding a N-sided room.\par \pard \par If pointer is inside a Sector\par \li360 Also the same as outside a sector, but the first sidedefs will be set to the sector they are contained in.  Think of this as inserting an N-sided pillar.\par \pard \par \fi-720 \li720 \b \i Note\b0 \i0 :\tab Pressing "Ins" after inserting the polygon will create a new sector inside the polygon and cause the walls to be changed to transparent.  Use this to define a new area inside a sector.\par \pard \par \page
${\footnote $ Delete objects}
#{\footnote # Delete_objects}
+{\footnote + O:00007}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Delete objects\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Same as \uldb Delete object key\uldb0 \v Delete_object_key\v0 .\par \par \page
${\footnote $ Preferences}
#{\footnote # Preferences}
+{\footnote + O:00008}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Preferences\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 The preferences dialog box lets you customize WinDEU.\par \par \{bmc PREFDLG.SHG\}\par \par \page
${\footnote $ Wall textures list}
#{\footnote # Wall_textures_list}
+{\footnote + Q:00001}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Wall textures list\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Select the wall texture you want to transfer to default texture. Double-click to open a preview dialog box.\par \page
${\footnote $ Default upper texture}
#{\footnote # Default_upper_texture}
+{\footnote + Q:00002}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Default upper texture\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Default wall upper texture. Doucle-click here to preview the texture.\par \page
${\footnote $ Transfer default upper texture}
#{\footnote # Transfer_default_upper_texture}
+{\footnote + Q:00003}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Transfer default upper texture\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Transfer selected wall texture to default upper texture box.\par \page
${\footnote $ Default normal texture}
#{\footnote # Default_normal_texture}
+{\footnote + Q:00004}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Default normal texture\par \cf1 \fs24 \par \b0 \i0 Default wall normal texture. Doucle-click here to preview the texture.\par \page
${\footnote $ Transfer default normal texture}
#{\footnote # Transfer_default_normal_texture}
+{\footnote + Q:00005}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Transfer default normal texture\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Transfer selected wall texture to default normal texture box.\par \page
${\footnote $ Default lower texture}
#{\footnote # Default_lower_texture}
+{\footnote + Q:00006}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Default lower texture\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Default lower texture\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Default wall lower texture. Doucle-click here to preview the texture.\par \page
${\footnote $ Transfer default lower texture}
#{\footnote # Transfer_default_lower_texture}
+{\footnote + Q:00007}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Transfer default lower texture\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Transfer default lower texture\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Transfer selected wall texture to default lower texture box.\par \page
${\footnote $ Clear default texture}
#{\footnote # Clear_default_texture}
+{\footnote + Q:00008}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Clear default texture\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Clear the default texture name.\par \page
${\footnote $ Floor Ceiling textures list}
#{\footnote # Floor_Ceiling_textures_list}
+{\footnote + Q:00009}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Floor Ceiling textures list\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Select the floor/ceiling texture you want to transfer to default texture. Double-click to open a preview dialog box.\par \page
${\footnote $ Default floor texture}
#{\footnote # Default_floor_texture}
+{\footnote + Q:00010}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Default floor texture\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Default ceiling upper texture. Doucle-click here to preview the texture.\par \page
${\footnote $ Transfer default floor texture}
#{\footnote # Transfer_default_floor_texture}
+{\footnote + Q:00011}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Transfer default floor texture\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Transfer selected floor/ceiling texture to default floor texture box.\par \page
${\footnote $ Default floor height}
#{\footnote # Default_floor_height}
+{\footnote + Q:00012}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Default floor height\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Enter default floor height. The difference between floor and ceiling heights should be less than 1000.\par \page
${\footnote $ Default ceiling texture}
#{\footnote # Default_ceiling_texture}
+{\footnote + Q:00013}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Default ceiling texture\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Default ceiling texture. Doucle-click here to preview the texture\par \page
${\footnote $ Transfer default ceiling texture}
#{\footnote # Transfer_default_ceiling_texture}
+{\footnote + Q:00014}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Transfer default floor texture\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Transfer selected floor/ceiling texture to default ceiling texture box.\par \page
${\footnote $ Default ceiling height}
#{\footnote # Default_ceiling_height}
+{\footnote + Q:00015}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Default ceiling height\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Enter default ceiling height. The difference between floor and ceiling heights should be less than 1000.\par \page
${\footnote $ Default Builder priority}
#{\footnote # Default_Builder_priority}
+{\footnote + Q:00016}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Default Builder priority\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Enter the builder priority between 0 and 1000. See \uldb [2.1] Command line parameters\uldb0 \v CMD_LINE_PARAMS\v0 \par \page
${\footnote $ Default Split factor}
#{\footnote # Default_Split_factor}
+{\footnote + Q:00017}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Default Split factor\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Enter the split factor. See\uldb [2.1] Command line parameters\uldb0 \v CMD_LINE_PARAMS\v0  .\par \page
${\footnote $ Default Debug option}
#{\footnote # Default_Debug_option}
+{\footnote + Q:00018}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Default Debug option\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Toggle debugging mode.\par \page
${\footnote $ Default Quiet option}
#{\footnote # Default_Quiet_option}
+{\footnote + Q:00019}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Default Quiet option\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Toggle quiet mode.\par \page
${\footnote $ Default Quieter option}
#{\footnote # Default_Quieter_option}
+{\footnote + Q:00020}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Default Quieter option\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Toggle quiter mode.\par \page
${\footnote $ Default Expert mode option}
#{\footnote # Default_Expert_mode_option}
+{\footnote + Q:00021}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Default Expert mode option\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Toggle Expert mode.\par \page
${\footnote $ Default Info bar option}
#{\footnote # Default_Info_bar_option}
+{\footnote + Q:00022}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Default Info bar option\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Toggle the info (status) bar.\par \page
${\footnote $ Default Additive selection box option}
#{\footnote # Default_Additive_selection_box_option}
+{\footnote + Q:00023}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Default Additive selection box option\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Toggle Additive selection box by default.\par \page
${\footnote $ Default Select 0 option}
#{\footnote # Default_Select_0_option}
+{\footnote + Q:00024}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Default Select 0 option\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Toggle Select object 0 when changing editing mode.\par \page
${\footnote $ Default 3D Controls option}
#{\footnote # Default_3D_Controls_option}
+{\footnote + Q:00025}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Default 3D Controls option\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Toggle 3D controls in dialog boxes.\par \page
${\footnote $ Default Draw LineDef length option}
#{\footnote # Default_Draw_LineDef_length_option}
+{\footnote + Q:00026}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Default Draw LineDef length option\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Toggle LineDefs length drawing when moving LineDefs in LineDefs or Vertices editing modes..\par \page
${\footnote $ Default Maximum undo}
#{\footnote # Default_Maximum_undo}
+{\footnote + Q:00027}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Default Maximum undo\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Enter the maximum number of UNDO/REDO structures WinDEU will remember. Each of these structures takes as much memory space as the entire level, so enter a number with the memory available taken into account.\par \page
${\footnote $ Search}
#{\footnote # Search}
+{\footnote + M:00003}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Search\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Search and Jump to objects.\par \par See also:\par \tab \uldb Find and change\uldb0 \v Find_and_change\v0 \par \tab \uldb Repeat last find\uldb0 \v Repeat_last_find\v0 \par \tab \uldb Next object\uldb0 \v Next_object\v0 \par \tab \uldb Previous object\uldb0 \v Previous_object\v0 \par \tab \uldb Jump to object\uldb0 \v Jump_to_object\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Find and change}
#{\footnote # Find_and_change}
+{\footnote + S:00001}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Find and change\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 (not yet implemented)\par Search for a specific object type. \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Repeat last find}
#{\footnote # Repeat_last_find}
+{\footnote + S:00002}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Repeat last find\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 (not yet implemented)\par Perform the search again to find the next match. \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Next object}
#{\footnote # Next_object}
+{\footnote + S:00003}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Next object\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Go to next object. \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Previous object}
#{\footnote # Previous_object}
+{\footnote + S:00004}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Previous object\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Go to previous object. \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Jump to object}
#{\footnote # Jump_to_object}
+{\footnote + S:00005}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Jump to object\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Go to a specific object number. \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Miscelaneous}
#{\footnote # Miscelaneous}
+{\footnote + M:00004}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Miscelaneous\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 The options that appear on this key vary depending upon which\tab \tab   editing mode you are in.\par \par See also:\par \tab \uldb Things miscelaneous\uldb0 \v Things_miscelaneous\v0 \par \tab \uldb Vertices miscelaneous\uldb0 \v Vertices_miscelaneous\v0 \par \tab \uldb LineDefs and SideDefs miscelaneous\uldb0 \v LineDefs_and_SideDefs_miscelaneous\v0 \par \tab \uldb Sectors miscelaneous\uldb0 \v Sectors_miscelaneous\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Free tag number}
#{\footnote # Free_tag_number}
+{\footnote + T:00001}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Free tag number\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 This will locate the first tag number which has not yet been used in this map.  The number it returns will be the lowest available tag number.\par \par \page
${\footnote $ Things miscelaneous}
#{\footnote # Things_miscelaneous}
+{\footnote + T:00002}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Things miscelaneous\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Miscelaneous operations on Things:\par \par \uldb Free tag number\uldb0 \v Free_tag_number\v0 \par \uldb Rotate and scale Things\uldb0 \v Rotate_and_scale_Things\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Rotate and scale Things}
#{\footnote # Rotate_and_scale_Things}
+{\footnote + U:00001}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Rotate and scale Things\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Move marked things by the degree of rotation and a percentage scale.  This will allow you to rearrange things by spinning them around (change rotation angle) or moving them closer to each other (scale < 100%) or further apart (scale > 100%).\par \par \page
${\footnote $ Vertices miscelaneous}
#{\footnote # Vertices_miscelaneous}
+{\footnote + T:00003}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Vertices miscelaneous\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Miscelaneous operations on Vertices:\par \par \uldb Free tag number\uldb0 \v Free_tag_number\v0 \par \uldb Rotate and Scale vertices\uldb0 \v Rotate_and_scale_Vertices\v0 \par \uldb Delete Vertex and join LineDefs\uldb0 \v Delete_Vertex_and_join_LineDefs\v0 \par \uldb Merge several Vertices into one\uldb0 \v Merge_several_Vertices_into_one\v0 \par \uldb Add a LineDef and split Sector\uldb0 \v Add_a_LineDef_and_split_Sector\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Rotate and scale Vertices}
#{\footnote # Rotate_and_scale_Vertices}
+{\footnote + V:00001}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Rotate and scale Vertices\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Move marked vertices by the degree of rotation and a percentage scale.  This will allow you to rearrange vertices by spinning them around (change rotation angle) or moving them closer to each other (scale < 100%) or further apart (scale > 100%).\par \par \page
${\footnote $ Delete Vertex and join LineDefs}
#{\footnote # Delete_Vertex_and_join_LineDefs}
+{\footnote + V:00002}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Delete Vertex and join LineDefs\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \tx0 \cf0 Deletes the marked vertex and joins linedef(s) that were previously connected to it. \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Merge several Vertices into one}
#{\footnote # Merge_several_Vertices_into_one}
+{\footnote + V:00003}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Merge several Vertices into one\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Same as \uldb Delete Vertex and join LineDefs\uldb0 \v Delete_Vertex_and_join_LineDefs\v0 , but with multiple vertices.\par \page
${\footnote $ Add a LineDef and split Sector}
#{\footnote # Add_a_LineDef_and_split_Sector}
+{\footnote + V:00004}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Add a LineDef and split Sector\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 You must mark exactly TWO vertices from the SAME sector before calling this command. This will add a linedef and a new sector.\par \par \page
${\footnote $ LineDefs and SideDefs miscelaneous}
#{\footnote # LineDefs_and_SideDefs_miscelaneous}
+{\footnote + T:00004}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i LineDefs and SideDefs miscelaneous\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Miscelaneous operations on LineDefs:\par \par \uldb Free tag number\uldb0 \v Free_tag_number\v0 \par \uldb Rotate and scale LineDefs\uldb0 \v Rotate_and_scale_LineDefs\v0 \par \uldb Split LineDef and Add new Vertex\uldb0 \v Split_LineDef_and_Add_new_Vertex\v0 \par \uldb Split LineDefs and Sectors\uldb0 \v Split_LineDefs_and_Sectors\v0 \par \uldb Delete LineDefs and join Sectors\uldb0 \v Delete_LineDefs_and_join_Sectors\v0 \par \uldb Flip LineDef\uldb0 \v Flip_LineDef\v0 \par \uldb Swap SideDefs\uldb0 \v Swap_SideDefs\v0 \par \uldb Align textures Y offset\uldb0 \v Align_textures_Y_offset\v0 \par \uldb Align textures X offset\uldb0 \v Align_textures_X_offset\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Rotate and scale LineDefs}
#{\footnote # Rotate_and_scale_LineDefs}
+{\footnote + W:00001}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Rotate and scale LineDefs\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Move marked linedefs by the degree of rotation and a percentage scale.  This will allow you to rearrange linedefs by spinning them around (change rotation angle) or moving them closer to each other (scale < 100%) or further apart (scale > 100%).\par \par \page
${\footnote $ Split LineDef and Add new Vertex}
#{\footnote # Split_LineDef_and_Add_new_Vertex}
+{\footnote + W:00002}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Split LineDef and Add new Vertex\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Splits the selected linedef(s).\par \page
${\footnote $ Split LineDefs and Sectors}
#{\footnote # Split_LineDefs_and_Sectors}
+{\footnote + W:00003}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Split LineDefs and Sectors\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Splits the selected linedefs by adding a vertex at the midpoint, connecting the new vertices with a linedef which divides the original sector.\par \par \page
${\footnote $ Delete LineDefs and join Sectors}
#{\footnote # Delete_LineDefs_and_join_Sectors}
+{\footnote + W:00004}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Delete LineDefs and join Sectors\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Removes the selected two-sided linedef(s) that divide sectors and makes them into a single sector.\par \par \page
${\footnote $ Flip LineDef}
#{\footnote # Flip_LineDef}
+{\footnote + W:00005}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Flip LineDef\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Flips the linedef(s) start and endpoints, thus reversing the side the 1st and 2nd sidedefs are on.\par \par \page
${\footnote $ Swap SideDefs}
#{\footnote # Swap_SideDefs}
+{\footnote + W:00006}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Swap SideDefs\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Swaps the sectors that sidedef(s) 1 and 2 are tied to.\par \par \page
${\footnote $ Align textures Y offset}
#{\footnote # Align_textures_Y_offset}
+{\footnote + W:00007}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Align textures Y offset\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Align the textures on the Y offset.  The first linedef selected is used as the reference point. This is for Up/Down alignment.\par \par \page
${\footnote $ Align textures X offset}
#{\footnote # Align_textures_X_offset}
+{\footnote + W:00008}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Align textures X offset\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 This may be used on a group of linedefs that follow each other.  The first linedef selected is used as the reference.  This is for left/right alignment.\par \par \uldb SideDef 1 Check name\uldb0 \v SideDef_1_Check_name\v0 \par \uldb SideDef 1 Check name and initial offset\uldb0 \v SideDef_1_Check_name_and_initial_offset\v0 \par \uldb SideDef 1 Do not Check name\uldb0 \v SideDef_1_Do_not_Check_name\v0 \par \uldb SideDef 1 Do not Check name and Initial offset\uldb0 \v SideDef_1_Do_not_Check_name_and_Initial_offset\v0 \par \uldb SideDef 2 Check name\uldb0 \v SideDef_2_Check_name\v0 \par \uldb SideDef 2 Check name and Initial offset\uldb0 \v SideDef_2_Check_name_and_Initial_offset\v0 \par \uldb SideDef 2 Do not Check name\uldb0 \v SideDef_2_Do_not_Check_name\v0 \par \uldb SideDef 2 Do not Check name and Initial offset\uldb0 \v SideDef_2_Do_not_Check_name_and_Initial_offset\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ SideDef 1 Check name}
#{\footnote # SideDef_1_Check_name}
+{\footnote + X:00001}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i SideDef 1 Check name\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Align the first SideDefs of selected LineDefs which have the same texture name. The initial offset is 0.\par \page
${\footnote $ SideDef 1 Check name and initial offset}
#{\footnote # SideDef_1_Check_name_and_initial_offset}
+{\footnote + X:00002}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i SideDef 1 Check name and initial offset\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Align the first SideDefs of selected LineDefs which have the same texture name. A dialog box inputs the initial offset.\par \page
${\footnote $ SideDef 1 Do not Check name}
#{\footnote # SideDef_1_Do_not_Check_name}
+{\footnote + X:00003}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i SideDef 1 Do not Check name\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Align the first SideDefs of selected LineDefs. The initial offset is 0.\par \page
${\footnote $ SideDef 1 Do not Check name and Initial offset}
#{\footnote # SideDef_1_Do_not_Check_name_and_Initial_offset}
+{\footnote + X:00004}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i SideDef 1 Do not Check name and Initial offset\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Align the first SideDefs of selected LineDefs. A dialog box inputs the initial offset.\par \page
${\footnote $ SideDef 2 Check name}
#{\footnote # SideDef_2_Check_name}
+{\footnote + X:00005}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i SideDef 2 Check name\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Align the second SideDefs of selected LineDefs which have the same texture name. The initial offset is 0.\par \page
${\footnote $ SideDef 2 Check name and Initial offset}
#{\footnote # SideDef_2_Check_name_and_Initial_offset}
+{\footnote + X:00006}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i SideDef 2 Check name and Initial offset\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Align the second SideDefs of selected LineDefs which have the same texture name and initial offset. A dialog box inputs the initial offset.\par \page
${\footnote $ SideDef 2 Do not Check name}
#{\footnote # SideDef_2_Do_not_Check_name}
+{\footnote + X:00007}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i SideDef 2 Do not Check name\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Align the second SideDefs of selected LineDefs. The initial offset is 0.\par \page
${\footnote $ SideDef 2 Do not Check name and Initial offset}
#{\footnote # SideDef_2_Do_not_Check_name_and_Initial_offset}
+{\footnote + X:00008}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i SideDef 2 Do not Check name and Initial offset\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Align the second SideDefs of selected LineDefs. A dialog box inputs the initial offset.\par \page
${\footnote $ Sectors miscelaneous}
#{\footnote # Sectors_miscelaneous}
+{\footnote + T:00005}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Sectors miscelaneous\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Miscelaneous operations on Sectors:\par \par \uldb Free tag number\uldb0 \v Free_tag_number\v0 \par \uldb Rotate and scale Sectors\uldb0 \v Rotate_and_scale_Sectors\v0 \par \uldb Make door from Sector\uldb0 \v Make_door_from_Sector\v0 \par \uldb Make lift from Sector\uldb0 \v Make_lift_from_Sector\v0 \par \uldb Distribute Sector floor heights\uldb0 \v Distribute_Sector_floor_heights\v0 \par \uldb Distributes Sector ceiling heights\uldb0 \v Distributes_Sector_ceiling_heights\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Rotate and scale Sectors}
#{\footnote # Rotate_and_scale_Sectors}
+{\footnote + Y:00001}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Rotate and scale Sectors\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Move marked sectors by the degree of rotation and a percentage scale.  This will allow you to rearrange sectors by spinning them around (change rotation angle) or moving them closer to each other (scale < 100%) or further apart (scale > 100%).  This will NOT move the "Things" in the sector.  After rearranging the sector, you may have to go into things mode and select them and do the same rotation/adjustment on them.\par \par \page
${\footnote $ Make door from Sector}
#{\footnote # Make_door_from_Sector}
+{\footnote + Y:00002}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Make door from Sector\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 To use this, select a sector that is between two other sectors and then activate this function. The Linedefs, Ceiling height, textures, etc... will be modified accordingly.\par \par \page
${\footnote $ Make lift from Sector}
#{\footnote # Make_lift_from_Sector}
+{\footnote + Y:00003}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Make lift from Sector\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 To use this, select the sector that is to become the lift and then activate this function.  The Linedefs, textures, etc... will be modified accordingly.\par \par \page
${\footnote $ Distribute Sector floor heights}
#{\footnote # Distribute_Sector_floor_heights}
+{\footnote + Y:00004}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Distribute Sector floor heights\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 This function will take the difference in floor heights between the first and last sector selected, divide it by the number of sectors in between and then distribute the result across the floor heights of the in-between sectors.This is very useful for setting floor heights on stairways.\par \par \page
${\footnote $ Distributes Sector ceiling heights}
#{\footnote # Distributes_Sector_ceiling_heights}
+{\footnote + Y:00005}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Distributes Sector ceiling heights\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 This function will take the difference in ceiling heights between the first and last sector selected, divide it by the number of sectors in between and then distribute the result across the ceiling heights of the in-between sectors.  This is very useful for setting ceiling heights on stairways.\par \par \page
${\footnote $ Modes}
#{\footnote # Modes}
+{\footnote + M:00005}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Modes\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 There are four editing modes:\par \par \uldb Things edit mode\uldb0 \v Things_edit_mode\v0 \par \uldb LineDefs edit mode\uldb0 \v LineDefs_edit_mode\v0 \par \uldb Vertices edit mode\uldb0 \v Vertices_edit_mode\v0 \par \uldb Sectors edit mode\uldb0 \v Sectors_edit_mode\v0 \par \par See also:\par \tab \uldb Next mode\uldb0 \v Next_mode\v0 \par \tab \uldb Previous mode\uldb0 \v Previous_mode\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Things edit mode}
#{\footnote # Things_edit_mode}
+{\footnote + Z:00001}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Things edit mode\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Change what Enemies, Weapons, Players, Bonuses, and Decorations appear when and where.\par \par When editing a (group of) \uldb Thing(s)\uldb0 \v THINGS_DESCR\v0 , the following dialog box appears:\par \par \{bmc THINGDLG.SHG\}\par \par When you hit OK, the first thing in the selection list (usualy the last selected one) is updated. If you have more than one Thing selected, you will have to select what to copy to the other things. See \uldb Confirming copy of Thing attributes\uldb0 \v Confirming_copy_of_Thing_attributes\v0 .\par \page
${\footnote $ Thing X position}
#{\footnote # Thing_X_position}
+{\footnote + AA:00001}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Thing X position\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Enter the horizontall (X) position of the Thing. The position must be within the current map size.\par \page
${\footnote $ Thing Y position}
#{\footnote # Thing_Y_position}
+{\footnote + AA:00002}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Thing Y position\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Enter the vertical (Y) position of the Thing. The position must be within the current map size.\par \page
${\footnote $ Thing type set}
#{\footnote # Thing_type_set}
+{\footnote + AA:00003}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Thing type set\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par There are 7 sets of thing types:\par \pard \tx360 \fi-360 \li360 \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Player position\par \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Enemy\par \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Weapon\par \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Bonus: medi kit, armor, ...\par \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Keys: bleue, red, yellow key\par \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Decoration: barrel, trees, ...\par \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Dead bodies\par \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Hanging bodies\par \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Light sources\par \fi0 \li0 \page
${\footnote $ Thing type}
#{\footnote # Thing_type}
+{\footnote + AA:00004}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Thing type\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par List box containing all the thing types for the selected set.\par \page
${\footnote $ Thing appearence attributes}
#{\footnote # Thing_appearence_attributes}
+{\footnote + AA:00005}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Thing appearence attributes\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Check these boxes to select when the thing must appear in the level.\par \pard \tx360 \fi-360 \li360 \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Level 1/2: the thing will appear int the first and second skill levels.\par \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Level 3: The thing will appear in the third skill level.\par \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Level 4/5: The thing will appear in the fourth and fifth skill levels.\par \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Multi-player: The thing will appear when in a network game\par \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Deaf: The thing won't attack you until you hit it.\par \pard \par \page
${\footnote $ Thing angle}
#{\footnote # Thing_angle}
+{\footnote + AA:00006}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Thing angle\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par The starting angle of the thing. This attributes is interesting for moving Things (enemies).\par \par The 8 legal angles are: East (0\'b0), North-East (45\'b0), North (90\'b0), North-West (135\'b0), West (180\'b0), South-West (225\'b0), South (270\'b0), South-East (315\'b0)\par \page
${\footnote $ Thing preview}
#{\footnote # Thing_preview}
+{\footnote + AA:00007}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Thing preview\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Preview of the pictures of the selected Thing type.\par \par See also: \uldb Viewing pictures\uldb0 \v Viewing_pictures\v0 .\par \page
${\footnote $ Confirming copy of Thing attributes}
#{\footnote # Confirming_copy_of_Thing_attributes}
+{\footnote + AA:00008}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Confirming copy of Thing attributes\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 The following dialog box lets you select what to copy from the first Thing in the selection list (usualy the last selected one) to the others in the selection list:\par WinDEU 5.24 now "remember" what you changed in the \uldb Thing edit dialog box\uldb0 \v Things_edit_mode\v0 , so the check boxes are automaticaly checked to what you changed.\par \par \{bmc CNFTHDLG.SHG\}\par \par \page
${\footnote $ Copy thing attributes}
#{\footnote # Copy_thing_attributes}
+{\footnote + AB:00001}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Copy thing attributes\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Select the attributes (X and Y position, type, angle, appereance) you want to copy. See also \uldb Things edit mode\uldb0 \v Things_edit_mode\v0 .\par \page
${\footnote $ LineDefs edit mode}
#{\footnote # LineDefs_edit_mode}
+{\footnote + Z:00002}
\keepn \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i \f12 LineDefs edit mode\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \tx0 \tx396 \tx792 \tx1188 \tx1584 \tx1980 \tx2376 \tx2778 \tx3174 \tx3570 \tx3966 \tx4362 \tx4758 \tx5154 \tx5556 \tx5952 \tx6348 \tx6744 \tx7140 \cf0 Set up the lines where walls and triggers are.\par \par When editing a (group of) \uldb LineDef(s)\uldb0 \v LINEDEFS_DESCR\v0 , the following dialog box appears:\par \par \{bmc LINEEDIT.SHG\}\par \par \pard When you hit OK, the first LineDef in the selection list (usualy the last selected one) is updated. If you have more than one LineDef selected, you will have to select what to copy to the other LineDef. See \uldb Confirming copy of LineDef attributes\uldb0 \v Confirming_copy_of_LineDef_attributes\v0  .\par \par \page
${\footnote $ LineDef flags}
#{\footnote # LineDef_flags}
+{\footnote + AC:00001}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i LineDef flags\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Select the attributes of the LineDef(s). See \uldb [5.6] Attributes of LineDefs\uldb0 \v LINEDEF_ATTRIBUTES\v0 \par \page
${\footnote $ LineDef type set}
#{\footnote # LineDef_type_set}
+{\footnote + AC:00002}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i LineDef type set\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Select the LineDef type set: (see also \uldb [6] Special Doom areas\uldb0 \v SPECIAL_DOOM_AREAS\v0  )\par \pard \tx360 \fi-360 \li360 \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Doors: open/close door\par \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Ceilings: raise/lower ceiling\par \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Raise Floors\par \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Lower floors\par \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Moving things: lift, strais, floor movement,...\par \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab Special: end level, teleport, light, ...\par \fi0 \li0 \page
${\footnote $ LineDef type}
#{\footnote # LineDef_type}
+{\footnote + AC:00003}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i LineDef type\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Select the LineDef type. See \uldb [5.7] Types of LineDefs\uldb0 \v Types_of_LineDefs\v0 \par \page
${\footnote $ LineDef sector tag}
#{\footnote # LineDef_sector_tag}
+{\footnote + AC:00004}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i LineDef sector tag\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Enter the sector to which the LineDef is bound. See also \uldb [6] Special Doom areas\uldb0 \v SPECIAL_DOOM_AREAS\v0  \par \page
${\footnote $ LineDef new sector tag}
#{\footnote # LineDef_new_sector_tag}
+{\footnote + AC:00005}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i LineDef new sector tag\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Selects the first unused sector tag. See also \uldb [6] Special Doom areas\uldb0 \v SPECIAL_DOOM_AREAS\v0  \par \page
${\footnote $ LineDef vertex number}
#{\footnote # LineDef_vertex_number}
+{\footnote + AC:00006}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i LineDef vertex number\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Enter the vertex number for the LineDef (Experts only).\par \page
${\footnote $ LineDef SideDef number}
#{\footnote # LineDef_SideDef_number}
+{\footnote + AC:00007}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i LineDef SideDef number\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Enter the SideDef number bound to the LineDef (Experts only)\par \page
${\footnote $ LineDef new SideDef}
#{\footnote # LineDef_new_SideDef}
+{\footnote + AC:00008}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i LineDef new SideDef\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Creates and selects a new SideDefs.\par \page
${\footnote $ SideDef x offset}
#{\footnote # SideDef_x_offset}
+{\footnote + AC:00009}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i SideDef x offset\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Enter the X (-255, +255) offset of the SideDef normal texture. See \uldb Texture alignment basis\uldb0 \v Texture_alignment_basis\v0 \par \page
${\footnote $ SideDef y offset}
#{\footnote # SideDef_y_offset}
+{\footnote + AC:00010}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i SideDef y offset\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Enter the Y (-255, +255) offset of the SideDef normal texture. See \uldb Texture alignment basis\uldb0 \v Texture_alignment_basis\v0 \par \page
${\footnote $ SideDef sector number}
#{\footnote # SideDef_sector_number}
+{\footnote + AC:00011}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i SideDef sector number\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Enter the sector number to which the SideDef is bound (Expert only).\par \page
${\footnote $ SideDef above wall}
#{\footnote # SideDef_above_wall}
+{\footnote + AC:00012}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i SideDef above wall\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par SideDef upper texture. Doucle-click here to \uldb preview the texture\uldb0 \v Viewing_pictures\v0 .\par \page
${\footnote $ SideDef normal wall}
#{\footnote # SideDef_normal_wall}
+{\footnote + AC:00013}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i SideDef normal wall\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par SideDef normal texture. Doucle-click here to \uldb preview the texture\uldb0 \v Viewing_pictures\v0 .\par \page
${\footnote $ SideDef below wall}
#{\footnote # SideDef_below_wall}
+{\footnote + AC:00014}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i SideDef below wall\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par SideDef lower texture. Doucle-click here to \uldb preview the texture\uldb0 \v Viewing_pictures\v0 .\par \page
${\footnote $ Clear SideDef texture name}
#{\footnote # Clear_SideDef_texture_name}
+{\footnote + AC:00015}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Clear SideDef texture name\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Clear the SideDef correponding texture name.\par \page
${\footnote $ Transfer SideDef texture name}
#{\footnote # Transfer_SideDef_texture_name}
+{\footnote + AC:00016}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Transfer SideDef texture name\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Copy the corresponding SideDef texture from the textures list.\par \page
${\footnote $ SideDef texture names}
#{\footnote # SideDef_texture_names}
+{\footnote + AC:00017}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i SideDef texture names\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Select the wall texture you want to transfer to the SideDef wall. Double-click to \uldb preview the texture\uldb0 \v Viewing_pictures\v0 .\par \page
${\footnote $ Confirming copy of LineDef attributes}
#{\footnote # Confirming_copy_of_LineDef_attributes}
+{\footnote + AC:00018}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Confirming copy of LineDef attributes\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 The following dialog box lets you select what to copy from the first LineDef in the selection list (usualy the last selected one) to the others in the selection list:\par WinDEU 5.24 now "remember" what you changed in the \uldb LineDef edit dialog box\uldb0 \v LineDefs_edit_mode\v0 , so the check boxes are automaticaly checked to what you changed.\par \par \{bmc CNFLDDLG.SHG\}\par \par \page
${\footnote $ Copy LineDef attributes}
#{\footnote # Copy_LineDef_attributes}
+{\footnote + AD:00001}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Copy LineDef attributes\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Select the LineDef attributes (\uldb type\uldb0 \v Types_of_LineDefs\v0 , \uldb flags\uldb0 \v LINEDEF_ATTRIBUTES\v0 , starting Vertex, ending Vertex, Sector tag, first SideDef, second SideDef) you want to copy.\par When you check the "Flags" check box, select the flags you want to copy (whether they are "on" or "off") in the "Flags" group box.\par When you check a "SideDef" check box,  select the attributes of the corresponding SideDef you want to copy.\par Note that WinDEU copy the SideDef \b \i attributes\b0 \i0 , and \b \i not\b0 \i0  the SideDef \b \i number\b0 \i0 , thus creating new SideDef for the destination LineDefs if necessary. WinDEU will copy the SideDef number \b \i only\b0 \i0  in the case of a SideDef number equal to "-1" (meaning "no SideDef"), thus copying the "non-existence" as an attribute.\par See also \uldb LineDefs edit mode\uldb0 \v LineDefs_edit_mode\v0 .\par \page
${\footnote $ Copy SideDef attributes}
#{\footnote # Copy_SideDef_attributes}
+{\footnote + AD:00002}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Copy SideDef attributes\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Select the SideDef attributes (upper, normal and lower texture, x and y offset, and sector number) you want to copy. See also \uldb LineDefs edit mode\uldb0 \v LineDefs_edit_mode\v0 .\par \page
${\footnote $ Copy LineDef flags}
#{\footnote # Copy_LineDef_flags}
+{\footnote + AD:00003}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Copy LineDef flags\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Select the \uldb flags\uldb0 \v LINEDEF_ATTRIBUTES\v0  you want to copy. Note WinDEU copy the value of each selected flag (whether it's "on" or "off"). See also \uldb LineDefs edit mode\uldb0 \v LineDefs_edit_mode\v0 .\par \page
${\footnote $ Vertices edit mode}
#{\footnote # Vertices_edit_mode}
+{\footnote + Z:00003}
\keepn \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i \f12 Vertices edit mode\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Modify points used to set up other doom structures.  The \uldb vertices\uldb0 \v VERTICES_DESCR\v0  are the lowest level structure in a DOOM map.\par \pard \tx0 \tx396 \tx792 \tx1188 \tx1584 \tx1980 \tx2376 \tx2778 \tx3174 \tx3570 \tx3966 \tx4362 \tx4758 \tx5154 \tx5556 \tx5952 \tx6348 \tx6744 \tx7140 \par When editing a (group of) Vertex(ices), the following dialog box appears:\par \pard \par \{bmc VERTDLG.SHG\}\par \par When you hit OK, the first Vertex in the selection list (usualy the last selected one) is updated. If you have more than one Vertex selected, you will have to select what to copy to the other Vertices. See \uldb Confirming copy of Vertex attributes\uldb0 \v Confirming_copy_of_Vertex_attributes\v0 .\par \par \page
${\footnote $ Vertex X position}
#{\footnote # Vertex_X_position}
+{\footnote + AE:00001}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Vertex X position\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Enter the horizontal (X) position of the vertex.\par \page
${\footnote $ Vertex Y position}
#{\footnote # Vertex_Y_position}
+{\footnote + AE:00002}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Vertex Y position\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Enter the vertical (Y) position of the vertex.\par \page
${\footnote $ Confirming copy of Vertex attributes}
#{\footnote # Confirming_copy_of_Vertex_attributes}
+{\footnote + AE:00003}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Confirming copy of Vertex attributes\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 The following dialog box lets you select what to copy from the first Vertex in the selection list (usualy the last selected one) to the others in the selection list:\par WinDEU 5.24 now "remember" what you changed in the \uldb Vertex edit dialog box\uldb0 \v Vertices_edit_mode\v0 , so the check boxes are automaticaly checked to what you changed.\par \par \{bmc CNFVEDLG.SHG\}\par \par \page
${\footnote $ Copy vertex attributes}
#{\footnote # Copy_vertex_attributes}
+{\footnote + AF:00001}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Copy vertex attributes\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Select the Vertex attributes (X and Y position) you want to copy. See also \uldb Vertices edit mode\uldb0 \v Vertices_edit_mode\v0 .\par \page
${\footnote $ Sectors edit mode}
#{\footnote # Sectors_edit_mode}
+{\footnote + Z:00004}
\keepn \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i \f12 Sectors edit mode\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \tx0 \tx396 \tx792 \tx1188 \tx1584 \tx1980 \tx2376 \tx2778 \tx3174 \tx3570 \tx3966 \tx4362 \tx4758 \tx5154 \tx5556 \tx5952 \tx6348 \tx6744 \tx7140 \cf0 Define rooms or areas.\par \pard \par \pard \tx0 \tx396 \tx792 \tx1188 \tx1584 \tx1980 \tx2376 \tx2778 \tx3174 \tx3570 \tx3966 \tx4362 \tx4758 \tx5154 \tx5556 \tx5952 \tx6348 \tx6744 \tx7140 When editing a (group of) \uldb Sector(s)\uldb0 \v SECTORS_DESCR\v0 , the following dialog box appears:\par \pard \par \{bmc SEDITDLG.SHG\}\par \par When you hit OK, the first Sector in the selection list (usualy the last selected one) is updated. If you have more than one Sector selected, you will have to select what to copy to the other Sectors. See \uldb Confirming copy of Sector attributes\uldb0 \v Confirming_copy_of_Sector_attributes\v0 .\par \par \page
${\footnote $ Sector special}
#{\footnote # Sector_special}
+{\footnote + AG:00001}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Sector special\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Select the sector special type. See \uldb [6] Special Doom areas\uldb0 \v SPECIAL_DOOM_AREAS\v0 \par \page
${\footnote $ Light level}
#{\footnote # Light_level}
+{\footnote + AG:00002}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Light level\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Enter the light level of the sector (0 - 255). See \uldb [5.4] Description of Sectors\uldb0 \v SECTORS_DESCR\v0 \par \page
${\footnote $ LineDef tag}
#{\footnote # LineDef_tag}
+{\footnote + AG:00003}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i LineDef tag\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Select the LineDef tag this sector is bound to. See \uldb [5.4] Description of Sectors\uldb0 \v SECTORS_DESCR\v0 \par \page
${\footnote $ New LineDef tag}
#{\footnote # New_LineDef_tag}
+{\footnote + AG:00004}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i New LineDef tag\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Find and insert the first unused LineDef tag in the level.\par \page
${\footnote $ Floor and Ceiling textures list}
#{\footnote # Floor_and_Ceiling_textures_list}
+{\footnote + AG:00005}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Floor and Ceiling textures list\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Select the name of the floor/ceiling texture you want to transfer. Doucle-click to \uldb preview the texture\uldb0 \v Viewing_pictures\v0 .\par \page
${\footnote $ Floor texture}
#{\footnote # Floor_texture}
+{\footnote + AG:00006}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Floor texture\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Floor texture name of the Sector. Doucle-click to \uldb preview the texture\uldb0 \v Viewing_pictures\v0 .\par \page
${\footnote $ Clear Floor texture}
#{\footnote # Clear_Floor_texture}
+{\footnote + AG:00007}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Clear Floor texture\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Clear ("-" string) the floor texture name of the Sector.\par \page
${\footnote $ Transfer Floor texture}
#{\footnote # Transfer_Floor_texture}
+{\footnote + AG:00008}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Transfer Floor texture\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Transfer the selected floor/ceiling texture name from the list box to the floor texture of the Sector.\par \page
${\footnote $ Floor height}
#{\footnote # Floor_height}
+{\footnote + AG:00009}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Floor height\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Enter the height of the floor. Must be lower than the ceiling texture height.\par \page
${\footnote $ Ceiling texture}
#{\footnote # Ceiling_texture}
+{\footnote + AG:00010}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Ceiling texture\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Ceiling texture of the Sector. Doucle-click to \uldb preview the texture\uldb0 \v Viewing_pictures\v0 .\par \par \page
${\footnote $ Clear Ceiling texture}
#{\footnote # Clear_Ceiling_texture}
+{\footnote + AG:00011}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Clear Ceiling texture\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Clear ("-" string) the ceiling texture name of the Sector.\par \page
${\footnote $ Transfer Ceiling texture}
#{\footnote # Transfer_Ceiling_texture}
+{\footnote + AG:00012}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Transfer Ceiling texture\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Transfer the selected floor/ceiling texture name from the list box to the ceiling texture of the Sector.\par \page
${\footnote $ Ceiling height}
#{\footnote # Ceiling_height}
+{\footnote + AG:00013}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Ceiling height\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Enter the height of the ceiling. Must higher than the floor texture height.\par \page
${\footnote $ Confirming copy of Sector attributes}
#{\footnote # Confirming_copy_of_Sector_attributes}
+{\footnote + AG:00014}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Confirming copy of Sector attributes\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 The following dialog box lets you select what to copy from the first Sector in the selection list (usualy the last selected one) to the others in the selection list:\par WinDEU 5.24 now "remember" what you changed in the \uldb Sector edit dialog box\uldb0 \v Sectors_edit_mode\v0 , so the check boxes are automaticaly checked to what you changed.\par \par \{bmc CNFSEDLG.SHG\}\par \par \page
${\footnote $ Copy sector attributes}
#{\footnote # Copy_sector_attributes}
+{\footnote + AH:00001}
\f12 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Copy sector attributes\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \par Select the sector attributes (Sector special type, LineDef tag, ligtht level, floor height, floor texture, ceiling height, ceiling texture) you want to copy. See also \uldb Sectors edit mode\uldb0 \v Sectors_edit_mode\v0 .\par \page
${\footnote $ Next mode}
#{\footnote # Next_mode}
+{\footnote + Z:00005}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Next mode\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Go to next editing mode.\par \page
${\footnote $ Previous mode}
#{\footnote # Previous_mode}
+{\footnote + Z:00006}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Previous mode\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Go to previous editing mode.\par \page
${\footnote $ Check}
#{\footnote # Check}
+{\footnote + M:00006}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Check\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 When using the following diagnostics if an error is reported you can press return to continue checking or press Esc to select the problem object.\par \par See also:\par \tab \uldb Display statistics\uldb0 \v Display_statistics\v0 \par \tab \uldb Check all sectors are closed\uldb0 \v Check_all_sectors_are_closed\v0 \par \tab \uldb Check all cross references\uldb0 \v Check_all_cross_references\v0 \par \tab \uldb Check for missing textures\uldb0 \v Check_for_missing_textures\v0 \par \tab \uldb Check textures names\uldb0 \v Check_textures_names\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Display statistics}
#{\footnote # Display_statistics}
+{\footnote + AI:00001}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Display statistics\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 This option gives a count of the number of things, vertices, linedefs, sidedefs, and sectors.  It also displays the amount of bytes needed to store this information in a PWAD file (Rounded to the nearest Kbyte).\par \par \page
${\footnote $ Check all sectors are closed}
#{\footnote # Check_all_sectors_are_closed}
+{\footnote + AI:00002}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Check all sectors are closed\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 This will test all sectors and make sure they are closed.  If they are not closed it reports the number of the unclosed sector.\par \par \page
${\footnote $ Check all cross references}
#{\footnote # Check_all_cross_references}
+{\footnote + AI:00003}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Check all cross references\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Verify the integrity of the level and help locate possible problem areas.  This will help to locate orphaned sidedefs, etc.  This will also remove extraneous LineDefs if there are two LineDefs between the same vertices.\par \par \page
${\footnote $ Check for missing textures}
#{\footnote # Check_for_missing_textures}
+{\footnote + AI:00004}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Check for missing textures\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Report any sidedefs that may need to have a Normal/Upper/or Lower texture defined.\par \par \page
${\footnote $ Check textures names}
#{\footnote # Check_textures_names}
+{\footnote + AI:00005}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Check textures names\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Some other editors will let you enter texture names which are not correct.  This function will help fix their mistakes.\par \par \page
${\footnote $ Window popup}
#{\footnote # Window_popup}
+{\footnote + M:00007}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Window popup\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Various menu items to manage the editor view:\par \par See:\par \uldb Center Map\uldb0 \v Center_Map\v0 \par \uldb Zoom In\uldb0 \v Zoom_In\v0 \par \uldb Zoom Out\uldb0 \v Zoom_Out\v0 \par \uldb Snap to grid\uldb0 \v Snap_to_grid\v0 \par \uldb Show grid\uldb0 \v Show_grid\v0 \par \uldb Increase grid scale\uldb0 \v Increase_grid_scale\v0 \par \uldb Decrease grid scale\uldb0 \v Decrease_grid_scale\v0 \par \uldb Show info windows\uldb0 \v Show_info_windows\v0 \par \uldb Show tool bar\uldb0 \v Show_tool_bar\v0 \par \uldb Show info bar\uldb0 \v Show_info_bar\v0 \par \uldb Info windows layout\uldb0 \v Info_windows_layout\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Center Map}
#{\footnote # Center_Map}
+{\footnote + AJ:00001}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Center Map\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Center and fit the map (changing scale) in the editor window.\par \page
${\footnote $ Zoom In}
#{\footnote # Zoom_In}
+{\footnote + AJ:00002}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Zoom In\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Zoom in the map (see \uldb Zoom keys\uldb0 \v Zoom_keys\v0  )\par \page
${\footnote $ Zoom Out}
#{\footnote # Zoom_Out}
+{\footnote + AJ:00003}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Zoom Out\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Zoom out the map (see \uldb Zoom keys\uldb0 \v Zoom_keys\v0  )\par \page
${\footnote $ Snap to grid}
#{\footnote # Snap_to_grid}
+{\footnote + AJ:00004}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Snap to grid\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 This option turns on/off snapping objects to grid, whether or not the grid size is 0. See also \uldb Grid keys\uldb0 \v Grid_keys\v0 \par \page
${\footnote $ Show grid}
#{\footnote # Show_grid}
+{\footnote + AJ:00005}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Show grid\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Toggle the display of the grid. See also \uldb Grid keys\uldb0 \v Grid_keys\v0 \par \page
${\footnote $ Increase grid scale}
#{\footnote # Increase_grid_scale}
+{\footnote + AJ:00006}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Increase grid scale\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Increase the grid size by multiplying it by 2. See also \uldb Grid keys\uldb0 \v Grid_keys\v0 \par \page
${\footnote $ Decrease grid scale}
#{\footnote # Decrease_grid_scale}
+{\footnote + AJ:00007}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Decrease grid scale\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Decrease the grid size by dividing it by 2. See also \uldb Grid keys\uldb0 \v Grid_keys\v0 \par \page
${\footnote $ Show info windows}
#{\footnote # Show_info_windows}
+{\footnote + AJ:00008}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Show info windows\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Toggle the display of the information windows. The information windows are, by default, in the low left corner of the editor window. They contains informations on the selected object.\par \page
${\footnote $ Show tool bar}
#{\footnote # Show_tool_bar}
+{\footnote + AJ:00009}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Show tool bar\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Toggle the tool bar of the editor window. Use this in conjunction with \uldb Window|Show info windows\uldb0 \v Show_info_windows\v0  to get a large editing area.\par \page
${\footnote $ Show info bar}
#{\footnote # Show_info_bar}
+{\footnote + AJ:00010}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Show info bar\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Toggle the status bar of the editor window. Use this in conjunction with \uldb Window|Show info windows\uldb0 \v Show_info_windows\v0  to get a large editing area.\par \page
${\footnote $ Info windows layout}
#{\footnote # Info_windows_layout}
+{\footnote + AJ:00011}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Info windows layout\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Controls the layout of the information windows in the editor window.\par \par \uldb Horizontal down left\uldb0 \v Horizontal_down_left\v0 \par \uldb Horizontal down right\uldb0 \v Horizontal_down_right\v0 \par \uldb Horizontal up left\uldb0 \v Horizontal_up_left\v0 \par \uldb Horizontal up right\uldb0 \v Horizontal_up_right\v0 \par \uldb Vertical down left\uldb0 \v Vertical_down_left\v0 \par \uldb Vertical down right\uldb0 \v Vertical_down_right\v0 \par \uldb Vertical up left\uldb0 \v Vertical_up_left\v0 \par \uldb Vertical up right\uldb0 \v Vertical_up_right\v0 \par \uldb Layout now\uldb0 \v Layout_now\v0 \par \uldb Automatic layout\uldb0 \v Automatic_layout\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Horizontal down left}
#{\footnote # Horizontal_down_left}
+{\footnote + AK:00001}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Horizontal down left\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Layout information windows horizontaly, in the lower left corner of the editor window.\par \page
${\footnote $ Horizontal down right}
#{\footnote # Horizontal_down_right}
+{\footnote + AK:00002}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Horizontal down right\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Layout information windows horizontaly, in the lower right corner of the editor window.\par \page
${\footnote $ Horizontal up left}
#{\footnote # Horizontal_up_left}
+{\footnote + AK:00003}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Horizontal up left\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Layout information windows horizontaly, in the upper left corner of the editor window.\par \page
${\footnote $ Horizontal up right}
#{\footnote # Horizontal_up_right}
+{\footnote + AK:00004}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Horizontal up right\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Layout information windows horizontaly, in the upper right corner of the editor window.\par \page
${\footnote $ Vertical down left}
#{\footnote # Vertical_down_left}
+{\footnote + AK:00005}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Vertical down left\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Layout information windows verticaly, in the lower left corner of the editor window.\par \page
${\footnote $ Vertical down right}
#{\footnote # Vertical_down_right}
+{\footnote + AK:00006}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Vertical down right\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Layout information windows verticaly, in the lower right corner of the editor window.\par \page
${\footnote $ Vertical up left}
#{\footnote # Vertical_up_left}
+{\footnote + AK:00007}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Vertical up left\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Layout information windows verticaly, in the upper left corner of the editor window.\par \page
${\footnote $ Vertical up right}
#{\footnote # Vertical_up_right}
+{\footnote + AK:00008}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Vertical up right\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Layout information windows verticaly, in the upper right corner of the editor window.\par \page
${\footnote $ Layout now}
#{\footnote # Layout_now}
+{\footnote + AK:00009}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Layout now\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Layout the information windows to the low left corner of the editor window.\par \page
${\footnote $ Automatic layout}
#{\footnote # Automatic_layout}
+{\footnote + AK:00010}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Automatic layout\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Toggle automatic layout of the information windows when the editor window is resized.\par \page
${\footnote $ Help}
#{\footnote # Help}
+{\footnote + M:00008}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Help\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Open and display the WinDEU level editor help file.\par \par See also:\par \uldb Help contents\uldb0 \v Help_contents\v0 \par \uldb Search help on\uldb0 \v Search_help_on\v0 \par \uldb Using help\uldb0 \v Using_help\v0 \par \uldb Keyboard\uldb0 \v HELP_Keyboard\v0 \par \uldb Mouse\uldb0 \v HELP_Mouse\v0 \par \uldb Level editor\uldb0 \v HELP_Level_editor\v0 \par \uldb Tutorial\uldb0 \v HELP_Tutorial\v0 \par \uldb About WinDEU\uldb0 \v About_WinDEU\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Help contents}
#{\footnote # Help_contents}
+{\footnote + AL:00001}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Help contents\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Display the index of this help file.\par \page
${\footnote $ Search help on}
#{\footnote # Search_help_on}
+{\footnote + AL:00002}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Search help on\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Open a dialog box with the key words of this help file.\par \page
${\footnote $ Using help}
#{\footnote # Using_help}
+{\footnote + AL:00003}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Using help\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Open a help file about using the help system.\par \page
${\footnote $ Keyboard}
#{\footnote # HELP_Keyboard}
+{\footnote + AL:00004}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Keyboard\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Display the \uldb keyboard\uldb0 \v KEYBOARD_REF\v0  reference for the level editor.\par \page
${\footnote $ Mouse}
#{\footnote # HELP_Mouse}
+{\footnote + AL:00005}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Mouse\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Display the \uldb mouse\uldb0 \v Mouse_Commands\v0  usage reference for the level editor.\par \page
${\footnote $ Level editor}
#{\footnote # HELP_Level_editor}
+{\footnote + AL:00006}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Level editor\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Display help about the \uldb level editor\uldb0 \v Level_editor\v0 .\par \page
${\footnote $ Tutorial}
#{\footnote # HELP_Tutorial}
+{\footnote + AL:00007}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Tutorial\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Display the \uldb tutorial\uldb0 \v Tutorial\v0  help.\par \page
${\footnote $ About WinDEU}
#{\footnote # About_WinDEU}
+{\footnote + AL:00008}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i About WinDEU\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Brief information about the WinDEU and DEU programmers and the contributed work from the net.\par \par The logo picture of WinDEU 5.24 has been drawn by CalvnHobs1@aol.com. Thanks to him!\par \par The Info button opens a new dialog box with detailed version information of WinDEU. This dialog box displays a "Build time", which identifies the WinDEU version. When reporting a WinDEU bug, try to include this build time, so that I can identify what version of WinDEU you are using.\par \par \page
${\footnote $ [5] Wad file description}
#{\footnote # WAD_FILE}
+{\footnote + 00006}
K{\footnote K Wad file, description of}
K{\footnote K Description of WAD files}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i [5] Wad file description\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 WinDEU works by editing the database that DOOM uses to store its information about each of the levels.  These database files are called WAD files.  There are two types of WAD files.\par \par \b IWAD File\b0 :\par \par \pard \tx0 \tx396 \tx792 \tx1188 \tx1584 \tx1980 \tx2376 \tx2778 \tx3174 \tx3570 \tx3966 \tx4362 \tx4758 \tx5154 \tx5556 \tx5952 \tx6348 \tx6744 \tx7140 \li396 This is the main data base file. It contains all the information about the graphics, sound, level maps, etc of the game.  There is only one IWAD file called DOOM.WAD and it must be in the current directory when DOOM is run.\par \li0 \par \b PWAD File\b0 :\par \par \li396 This is a special patch of the IWAD file.  It contains updates about the IWAD file.  PWAD files created by DEU will contain an updated map of a game level. PWAD files can be called anything.  When running DOOM, DOOM must be told to load a PWAD file.  This is done with the FILE parameter.  PWAD files are small so they can be easily shared.\par \pard \par \page
${\footnote $ [5.1] Description of Vertices}
#{\footnote # VERTICES_DESCR}
+{\footnote + AM:00001}
K{\footnote K Vertices, description of}
K{\footnote K Description of Vertices}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i [5.1] Description of Vertices\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf1 Vertices are simply points.  Each vertex has an x,y coordinate on a map. DOOM maps are 2 dimension so there is no z coordinate.  Vertices are used as the starting and ending points of \uldb LineDefs\uldb0 \v LINEDEFS_DESCR\v0 .\par \f10 \par \page
${\footnote $ [5.2] Description of LineDefs}
#{\footnote # LINEDEFS_DESCR}
+{\footnote + AM:00002}
K{\footnote K LineDefs, description of}
K{\footnote K  Description of LineDefs}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i [5.2] Description of LineDefs\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Lines which define boundaries in the map. These boundaries define the borders of a sector or the location of a trigger that you walk across. Each LineDef has a starting \uldb vertex\uldb0 \v VERTICES_DESCR\v0  and and ending vertex. There is a first and second side to every LineDef. Either side may have a reference to a \uldb SideDef\uldb0 \v SIDEDEFS_DESCR\v0 . LineDefs are also what is used as triggers and/or switches for special \uldb sectors\uldb0 \v SECTORS_DESCR\v0 .\par \par See also:\par \tab \uldb [5.6] Attributes of LineDefs\uldb0 \v LINEDEF_ATTRIBUTES\v0 \par \tab \uldb [5.7] Types of LineDefs\uldb0 \v Types_of_LineDefs\v0 \par \tab \uldb [5.8] Normal, Upper, Lower textures\uldb0 \v NOUPLO_TEXTURES\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ [5.3] Description of SideDefs}
#{\footnote # SIDEDEFS_DESCR}
+{\footnote + AM:00003}
K{\footnote K SideDefs, description of}
K{\footnote K  Description of SideDefs}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i [5.3] Description of SideDefs\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf1 Every visible side of a \uldb LineDef\uldb0 \v LINEDEFS_DESCR\v0  must have a SideDef. The SideDefs are used to put wall textures on. (See \uldb description of upper/lower/normal textures\uldb0 \v NOUPLO_TEXTURES\v0  below.)  An enclosed set of SideDefs is what defines a \uldb Sector\uldb0 \v SECTORS_DESCR\v0 .\par \f10 \par \page
${\footnote $ [5.4] Description of Sectors}
#{\footnote # SECTORS_DESCR}
+{\footnote + AM:00004}
K{\footnote K Sectors, description of}
K{\footnote K  Description of Sectors}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i [5.4] Description of Sectors\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 A Sector is made up of a group of 3 or more enclosed \uldb SideDefs\uldb0 \v SIDEDEFS_DESCR\v0 .  A sector can be viewed as a room or an area within a room.  Sectors contain ceiling and floor height information, ceiling and floor textures, special sector information (does it hurt to be there?  did you find a secret if you enter?)  Sectors are the only structure that "moves" in DOOM.  Lifts, Staircases, Doors, are all specially defined sectors. See also \uldb [6] Special Doom areas\uldb0 \v SPECIAL_DOOM_AREAS\v0 \par \f10 \par \page
${\footnote $ [5.5] Description of Things}
#{\footnote # THINGS_DESCR}
+{\footnote + AM:00005}
K{\footnote K Things, description of}
K{\footnote K  Description of Things}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i [5.5] Description of Things\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \cf5 \fs24 \pard \f12 \cf1 There are many types of Things in DOOM.  Player Start points, Enemies, Bonuses, Weapons, Keys, and Decorations.\par \f10 \par \page
${\footnote $ [5.6] Attributes of LineDefs}
#{\footnote # LINEDEF_ATTRIBUTES}
+{\footnote + AM:00006}
K{\footnote K LineDefs, Attributes}
K{\footnote K  Attributes of LineDefs}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i [5.6] Attributes of LineDefs\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Some abbreviations have been used for the \uldb LineDef\uldb0 \v LINEDEFS_DESCR\v0  attributes:\par \par \b Flag\tab Bit\tab Description\par \fi-1440 \li1440 \b0 Im\tab 0\tab Impassible by players and monsters.\par Mo\tab 1\tab Monsters cannot cross this line.\par 2S\tab 2\tab Twosided wall/may shoot through.\par Up\tab 3\tab Upper texture is "unpegged".  Try it with moving ceilings or doors.\par Lo\tab 4\tab Lower texture is "unpegged".  Try it with moving floors or lifts.\par Se\tab 5\tab Secret.  This line appears as normal on the map.\par So\tab 6\tab Blocks sound.  The sounds won't travel past this line.\par Ma\tab 7\tab Invisible on the map.  Even with the "computer map" powerup.\par In\tab 8\tab Already on the map at startup. \par \pard \tx0 \tx396 \tx792 \tx1188 \tx1584 \tx1980 \tx2376 \tx2778 \tx3174 \tx3570 \tx3966 \tx4362 \tx4758 \tx5154 \tx5556 \tx5952 \tx6348 \tx6744 \tx7140 \f10 \par \page
${\footnote $ [5.7] Types of LineDefs}
#{\footnote # Types_of_LineDefs}
+{\footnote + AM:00007}
K{\footnote K LineDefs, types}
K{\footnote K  Types of LineDefs}
\keepn \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i \f12 [5.7] Types of LineDefs\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 The first two letters in each \uldb LineDef\uldb0 \v LINEDEFS_DESCR\v0  type give its features.\par The first letter may be:\par \par \fi-1440 \li1440 D\tab Door\tab Press the spacebar to open it.\par S\tab Switch\tab Press the spacebar to activate this LineDef.\par W\tab Walk\tab Walk across this LineDef to activate it.\par G\tab Gun\tab You need to shoot that LineDef to activate it.\par \pard \par Except for doors ("D") and the "end level" LineDefs, all linedefs that activate a sector need a "Sector tag" number and at least one Sector with the same tag number to operate.\par \par The second letter may be:\par \par \fi-1440 \li1440 R\tab Repeatable.\par 1\tab Works only once.\par \pard \par Abbreviations are also used in the type name.  They refer to what happens to the Sector when triggered by this LineDef:\par \par \fi-1440 \li1440 O\tab Stays Open\par \fi0 \li396  Used only for doors.\par \pard \par \fi-1440 \li1440 N\tab Neighbor\par \fi0 \li396 Usually, this means that the floor rises or  lowers until it reaches the floor height of an adjacent  sector on its way.  In the menus, I have used "Ne." instead.\par \pard \par \fi-1440 \li1440 T\tab Texture and Type change\par \fi0 \li396 Same as above, but the texture and  type of the Sector are also changed.  The new Sector floor texture and type are copied from the Sector where the switch or walkthough LineDef is, not from the adjacent Sector(s).\par \pard \par \fi-1440 \li1440 C\tab Ceiling\par \fi0 \li396 This means that the floor rises until it reaches  the ceiling height of one adjacent Sector.\par \pard \par <,>\par \li396 Used as modifiers for the above letters.  "<N" means that  the floor will stop just below a neighboring floor.\par \pard \f10 \par \page
${\footnote $ [5.8] Normal, Upper, Lower textures}
#{\footnote # NOUPLO_TEXTURES}
+{\footnote + AM:00008}
K{\footnote K Normal, Upper, Lower textures}
K{\footnote K  Textures, Normal, Upper, Lower}
K{\footnote K  Wall textures}
K{\footnote K  SideDefs textures}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i [5.8] Normal, Upper, Lower textures\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 These are the three parts of a SideDef.\par \par \pard \tx756 \fi-360 \li756 1.\tab Upper Texture is used to account for variations in ceiling height. The SideDef facing the sector with the higher ceiling must have an upper texture defined.\par \pard \par \pard \tx756 \fi-360 \li756 2.\tab Lower Texture accounts for variations in floor height.  The SideDef of a line that faces a sector with a lower floor height must have a lower texture defined.\par \pard \par \pard \tx756 \fi-360 \li756 3.\tab \tab The Normal Texture is used for the surface of the sidedef which is below the ceiling height and above the floor height.\par \pard \fi-792 \li792 \par \fi-720 \li720 \b \i Note\b0 \i0 :\tab The LineDef/SideDef editor displays upper/lower texture boxes in RED if they are transparent and shouldn't be.  They will be grey if they are not visible and should be left transparent. If they are visible they will be black (transparent or not).  This is very helpful in eliminating the \uldb Hall of Mirrors (HOM) effect\uldb0 \v HOM_EFFECT\v0  caused by missing texture assignments.\par \pard \par \page
${\footnote $ [6] Special Doom areas}
#{\footnote # SPECIAL_DOOM_AREAS}
+{\footnote + 00007}
K{\footnote K Special Doom areas}
K{\footnote K  Areas, special}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i [6] Special Doom areas\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Tag numbers are used to uniquely identity a structure within the level.  There are tag numbers for both sectors and for linedefs. For example, if a switch is used to activate a Sector, then both this Sector and the LineDef with the switch will have the same\par tag number.\par \par See also:\par \tab \uldb Doors\uldb0 \v DOORS\v0 \par \tab \uldb Lifts\uldb0 \v LIFTS\v0 \par \tab \uldb Teleporters\uldb0 \v TELEPORTERS\v0 \par \tab \uldb Rising stairs\uldb0 \v RISING_STAIRS\v0 \par \tab \uldb Secret areas\uldb0 \v SECRET_AREAS\v0 \par \tab \uldb Standard rooms\uldb0 \v STANDARD_ROOMS\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ [6.1] Doors}
#{\footnote # DOORS}
+{\footnote + AN:00001}
K{\footnote K Doors}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i [6.1] Doors\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 A door is a Sector which usually starts with its ceiling at that same height as its floor (door closed).  When the player presses the spacebar, the ceiling will rise, opening the door.  On both sides of the door, you need one of the "D" LineDefs types.  You don't need to give a tag number to the Sector or the LineDefs.\par \par If you want to be able to open this door with a switch, then you need to give the same tag number to the Sector and the switch. Pick any number that is not used by another LineDef or Sector.\par \par \b Front and Back sides of Door\b0 :\par \par \li396 The lines that you walk through on the door should be "passable" (not Impassable), and twosided (flags = 4).\par \pard \par \li396 The Sidedefs that are on the outside of the door should NOT have a Normal or Lower texture.  They should have an Upper Texture. The Sidedefs on the inside of the door should not have any textures (Normal, Upper, or Lower).\par \pard \par \b Left and Right side of Door\b0 :\par \par \li396 Nothing special here.  You may want to pick a Doorlike texture for the sidedefs like "DOORTRAK".\par \pard \par \page
${\footnote $ [6.2] Lifts}
#{\footnote # LIFTS}
+{\footnote + AN:00002}
K{\footnote K Lifts}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i [6.2] Lifts\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 A lift is a sector surrounded by LineDefs with the "Lower lift" or "Raise lift" type.  All LineDefs between the upper floor and the lift will have the "Lower lift" type.  All LineDefs between the lower floor and the lift will have the "Raise lift" type.\par Usually, you also have some "Lower lift" LineDefs on the lower floor, a few steps away from the lift.\par \par The "Raise lift" type is a special case: when you cross this line, the lift will go up.  If the lift is already up, it will act as a switch that lowers the lift.\par \par In the editor, you will see a short line on one side of the LineDef when you select it (this is the normal vector).  In the game, the player must come from this side or else the lift won't work.\par \par Don't forget to give a tag number to the Sector and the LineDefs!\par \par \page
${\footnote $ [6.3] Teleporters}
#{\footnote # Teleporters}
+{\footnote + AN:00003}
K{\footnote K Teleporters}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i [6.3] Teleporters\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 You need two things to make a teleporter:\par \par \pard \tx756 \fi-360 \li756 \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab \tab One LineDef with the "Teleport" type and a Sector with the same  tag number.\par \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab \tab A special Thing in this sector, called "Teleport exit"/  "Teleport landing".\par \pard \par You may have several LineDefs that point to the same Sector, but you must have one and only one Sector with the same tag number.\par \par This only works if the line is crossed from the right side (see \uldb Lifts\uldb0 \v LIFTS\v0 ). If the teleporter worked on the two sides of the LineDef, you wouldn't be able to exit from it!\par \par \page
${\footnote $ [6.4] Rising stairs}
#{\footnote # Rising_stairs}
+{\footnote + AN:00004}
K{\footnote K Rising stairs}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i [6.4] Rising stairs\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 A raising staircase is created by defining a set of adjacent sectors at the same elevation. The sector that will be the first (lowest) step is assigned a LineDef tag corresponding to a Linedef of the Raise Stairs type. Each step will raise to an elevation of 8 higher than its next lower neighbor, or 8 up from its original level in the case of the first step.\par \par If we define a set of sectors at an elevation of 0 as shown below:\par \par \f11 \fs18     +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+\par     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |\par     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |\par     |  1  |  2  |  3  |  4  |  5  |  6  |  7  |  8  |  9  |  A  |\par     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |\par     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |\par     +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+\par \f12 \fs24 \par with sector _1_ connected to a Raise Stairs LineDef, the sectors that will form the stairs are those sectors that\par \par \pard \tx756 \fi-360 \li756 1.\tab Are at the same elevation as the first 'step' sector.\par 2.\tab Share a LineDef with a sector that is part of the stairs.\par 3.\tab The _first_ SideDef of the shared LineDef is part of the stairs.\par 4.\tab The shared LineDef has a _lower_ LineDef number than any other LineDef facing 'into' (by condition 3) the previous sector.\par \pard \par For example, if the linedefs were defined as follows:\par \par \pard \tx2835 \f11 \fs18     +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+\par     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |\par     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |\par   --|  1--|  2--|  3--|  4--|  5  |--6--|  7--|  8--|  9--|  A--|\par     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |\par     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |\par     +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+\par \f12 \fs24 \par \pard If Sector 1 was the first 'step', then Sectors 2, 3, 4, and 5 would be part of the staircase. Because the LineDef between Sectors 5 and 6 'faces' _away_ from Sector 5, Sector 6 will not raise when the staircase is triggered. If Sector 5 had a Floor elevation of 10, it would not become part of the staircase; only sectors with their Floor levels at the same level as the first step will be part of the staircase, regardless of the 'facing' of the LineDefs connecting them.\par \par The facing of the LineDefs making up the _sides_ of the staircase is important; you can make turning or spiral staircases, but you can also make staircases that elevate the floor of a room instead. Expanding the example, let us assume that Sector 0 is everything surrounding the sectors that are defined:\par \par \f11 \fs18     +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+\par     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |\par     |    b|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |\par   --|  1--|  2--|  3--|  4--|  5  |--6--|  7--|  8--|  9--|  A--|     0\par     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |\par     |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |     |     |     |     |\par     +--|--+--|--+--|--+--|--+--|--+--|--+-----+-----+-----+-----+\par        a\par \f12 \fs24 \par Now the LineDefs that make up the lower 'side' of Sectors 1 through 6 'face' into the staircase. If the LineDef number of the LineDef between Sector 1 and Sector 0 (labelled 'a' above) is _lower_ than the LineDef number of the LineDef number of the LineDef between Sector 1 and Sector 2 (labelled 'b' above), then when the stair is triggered, Sectors 1 and 0 will rise, then Sector 0 will rise further. This is not likely to be what you want.\par \par When creating a set of sectors to become an elevating staircase, make sure that either:\par \par \pard \tx756 \fi-360 \li756 a)\tab All the LineDefs _except_ the ones defining the path of the staircase face _away_ from the staircase's sectors, or\par b)\tab The LineDefs defining the path of the staircase, within a Sector, have _lower_ LineDef numbers than any other LineDef facing into that Sector.\par \pard \par The LineDef tag for sectors composing a staircase are, except for the sector that is the first step, irrelevant; the only use for nonzero LineDef tags in any other staircase sector is to have the editor flag the sector in a different color so the user can see where the limits of the staircase are. It is the sector elevation and the LineDef facing that determine the limits\par of a staircase.\par \par \page
${\footnote $ [6.5] Secret areas}
#{\footnote # Secret_areas}
+{\footnote + AN:00005}
K{\footnote K Secret areas}
K{\footnote K  Areas, secret}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i [6.5] Secret areas\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 All you need to create a "secret" area is to give the special type "Secret" to some Sector.  When the player steps on that Sector, the players secret ratio will be credited.\par \par If the secret sector is behind a secret door (one that has nearlythe same color as the other walls), you probably don't want the door to be shown on the map (the automap uses different colors for walls and doors). You will need to toggle the "Secret" flag in the LineDef attribute.  Then the door will be shown as a normal wall on the map.\par \par \page
${\footnote $ [6.6] Standard rooms}
#{\footnote # Standard_rooms}
+{\footnote + AN:00006}
K{\footnote K Standard rooms}
K{\footnote K  Rooms, standard}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i [6.6] Standard rooms\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 We already hear you say: "All this stuff about doors, lifts and so on is great, but how do I create a new room in my level?"...\par \par Each room consists in one or several Sectors surrounded by impassable LineDefs.  If you want to have dark and bright zones in your room, then you will need to divide the area into several Sectors.  The LineDefs between these Sectors should have the "twosided" bit set and have a transparent texture ("").\par \par The easiest way to add a new sector is with the 'F9' key.  Select the kind of shape that you want to insert, then enter its dimensions. Note that the position of the pointer is important when you press 'F9'. If the pointer is inside an existing Sector, then you will add an obstacle (i.e. the new object won't have a Sector inside it  only walls).  If the pointer is outside, then you will add a real room (with a new Sector inside it).  You can use the "obstacle" type and add a new Sector inside it.  Just press 'Ins' while the LineDefs are still selected.\par \par \page
${\footnote $ [7] How to try new levels}
#{\footnote # TRY_NEW_LEVELS}
+{\footnote + 00008}
K{\footnote K How to try new levels}
K{\footnote K  New levels, try}
K{\footnote K  Try new levels}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i [7] How to try new levels\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 To Run DOOM with your new level:\par \par \li396 > DOOM FILE E1L1.WAD\par \pard \par \li396 will load the normal doom game and the use the E1L1.WAD file to patch the data base. \par \pard \par More than one PWAD file can be loaded. E.g.:\par \par \li396 > DOOM FILE E1L1.WAD E1L2.WAD BRENDON.WAD RAPHAEL.WAD\par \pard \par \page
${\footnote $ [8] Troubleshooting}
#{\footnote # TROUBLESHOOTING}
+{\footnote + 00009}
K{\footnote K Troubleshooting}
K{\footnote K  Problems}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i [8] Troubleshooting\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 These sections describes problems you can have with DOOM and WinDEU:\par \par See:\par \tab \uldb [8.1] Hall Of Mirror effect\uldb0 \v HOM_EFFECT\v0 \par \tab \uldb [8.2] WinDEU bug or General Protection Fault\uldb0 \v WinDEU_bug\v0 \par \tab \uldb [8.3] Can't relax after playing Doom?\uldb0 \v DOOM_RELAX\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ [8.1] Hall Of Mirror effect}
#{\footnote # HOM_EFFECT}
+{\footnote + AO:00001}
K{\footnote K Hall Of Mirror effect}
K{\footnote K  HOM}
K{\footnote K  Problems, HOM}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i [8.1] Hall Of Mirror effect\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 The hall of mirrors effect is an indication that something is wrong with your map.\par \par Two common causes of this problem are:\par \pard \tx756 \fi-360 \li756 \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab \tab You forgot to give a texture to one part of a wall.\par \f14 \'b7\f12 \tab \tab You have a transparent line which is shared by two sectors, but you forgot to set the "twosided" (2S) flag for the LineDef.\par \pard \par You should run all tests from the 'F10' menu to check for these errors.\par \par If everything appears to be correct (no warnings during the checks), then maybe you have too many twosided LineDefs in the same room.  There is a limit in Doom's graphic engine on the number of twosided LineDefs that can be displayed at the same time.  Solution: delete some of them.  Sigh!\par \par But it may also be a problem with WinDEU's Nodes builder.  You may try to use different values for the "splitfactor" command line parameter, and see if that solves the problem (use positive values; 8 is the default; 16 or more may solve some problems).  If that still doesn't work, you will have to wait for the next release of WinDEU or use the excellent BSP program, available on most FTP sites (look for bsp11x.zip).\par \par \page
${\footnote $ [8.2] WinDEU bug or General Protection Fault}
#{\footnote # WinDEU_bug}
+{\footnote + AO:00002}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i [8.2] WinDEU bug or General Protection Fault\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 If you find a bug or a General Protection Fault using WinDEU, e-mail to:\par Renaud Paquay (rpa@info.fundp.ac.be)\par \page
${\footnote $ [8.3] Can't relax after playing DOOM?}
#{\footnote # DOOM_RELAX}
+{\footnote + AO:00003}
K{\footnote K Relax after DOOM}
K{\footnote K  DOOM relax}
K{\footnote K  Bob Marley}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i [8.3] Can't relax after playing DOOM?\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Watch a Bob Marley concert video and have a smoke.    8\}'\par \par \page
${\footnote $ [9] Tutorial}
#{\footnote # Tutorial}
+{\footnote + 00010}
K{\footnote K Tutorial}
K{\footnote K  WinDEU tutorial}
K{\footnote K  Getting started tutorial}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i [9] Tutorial\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \qc \f12 \b \cf0 WinDEU TUTORIAL v1.5\par \pard \b0 \par \fi-720 \li720 Note:\tab This tutorial was moved into this help file from the TUTOR.DOC file, which comes with DEU.\par \pard \par This document and the accompanying .wad files should help you to see what you need to do to build a level.  It's a sort of touch-and-see how it works thing. (sounds like fun!)\par \par Items appearing in braces \{\} indicate that there is a file that you can load to follow along and see how to do things. All these files can be found in the "TUTOR" directory. See \uldb File|Open wad file \uldb0 \v Open_WAD_file\v0  to know how to load a patch wad file.  After the file is loaded, edit the level (episode 2, mission 1) (See \uldb Editor|Edit level\uldb0 \v Edit_level\v0 ). Then select the \uldb editing mode(s)\uldb0 \v Modes\v0  indicated in the braces and move the pointer around to touch things and look at how they are structured.\par \par \par First go to:\par \tab \uldb Making your first level\uldb0 \v Making_your_first_level\v0 \par \par Now that we have a level, let's put some cool stuff in it.  What we will do here is to show ONE possible way to construct some special sectors like doors, stairs and lifts.  Please note that there ARE other ways to do them because there are many different types of doors & lifts, etc.  Also, you're a little more experienced at making vertices, lines and sectors already so we are not going to have as many WAD files to demonstrate the structures, just one or two to show each structure.\par \par Go to\par \tab \uldb Adding a door\uldb0 \v Adding_a_door\v0 \par \tab \uldb Adding a stairway\uldb0 \v Adding_a_stairway\v0 \par \tab \uldb Adding a lift\uldb0 \v Adding_a_lift\v0 \par \tab \uldb Adding a transporter\uldb0 \v Adding_a_transporter\v0 \par \tab \uldb Texture alignment basis\uldb0 \v Texture_alignment_basis\v0 \par \tab \uldb Complex texture alignment\uldb0 \v Complex_texture_alignment\v0 \par \tab \uldb Upper and lower textures alignment\uldb0 \v Upper_and_lower_textures_alignment\v0 \par \par See also \uldb [6] Special Doom areas\uldb0 \v SPECIAL_DOOM_AREAS\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Making your first level}
#{\footnote # Making_your_first_level}
+{\footnote + AP:00001}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Making your first level\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 This section is divided into 14 steps. Use the WinHELP bowser buttons (<< and >>) when in \uldb step 1\uldb0 \v Step_1\v0  to naviguate.\par \par Now we begin our journey...\par \par Go to \uldb Step 1\uldb0 \v Step_1\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Step 1}
#{\footnote # Step_1}
+{\footnote + AQ:00001}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Step 1\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 First create the new map with the Create command from the \uldb Edit|Create\uldb0 \v Create_level\v0  menu item (episode 2, mission 1, for example).  Go into vertices mode (hit \uldb tab\uldb0 \v Change_edit_mode_keys\v0 ) and create some vertices by positioning the cursor where you want the vertex and then press "\uldb Ins\uldb0 \v Insert_object_keys\v0 " to place a vertex there.  Using the Grid mode (press \uldb H\uldb0 \v Grid_keys\v0  to show the grid, then \uldb Shift-H\uldb0 \v Grid_keys\v0  to "snap to grid") is helpful if you want to line up the vertices.  You will need a minimum of three to create an enclosed polygon.  (Don't be afraid of running out until you're really good at this, many doom maps contain well over 800 vertices.)\par \par Go to \uldb Step 2\uldb0 \v Step_2\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Step 2}
#{\footnote # Step_2}
+{\footnote + AQ:00002}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Step 2\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Group the vertices by marking them (highlight them and \uldb Shift-left click the mouse\uldb0 \v Mouse_Commands\v0  or press "\uldb M\uldb0 \v Mark_objects_keys\v0 ") and add linedefs by pressing "\uldb Shift-Ins\uldb0 \v Insert_object_keys\v0 ".  It is best to mark them in CLOCKWISE order.\par \par Go to \uldb Step 3\uldb0 \v Step_3\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Step 3}
#{\footnote # Step_3}
+{\footnote + AQ:00003}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Step 3\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Mark all of the lines for the sector (you will want to mark the ones that aren't already marked) and press "\uldb Ins\uldb0 \v Insert_object_keys\v0 " to add a closed sector.\par \par Go to \uldb Step 4\uldb0 \v Step_4\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Step 4}
#{\footnote # Step_4}
+{\footnote + AQ:00004}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Step 4\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Repeat \uldb step 1\uldb0 \v Step_1\v0 , \uldb step 2\uldb0 \v Step_2\v0  and \uldb step 3\uldb0 \v Step_3\v0 .\par (You'll want more than 1 sector, unless you are very dull).\par \{S1.WAD - vertices, linedefs\}\par Load up this wad and see a very basic 2 sector map.\par \par Go to \uldb Step 5\uldb0 \v Step_5\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Step 5}
#{\footnote # Step_5}
+{\footnote + AQ:00005}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Step 5\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 (This step is made mostly obsolete by DEU5.0 and above since it now does these things automatically, but you can verify it anyway.)\par \par If you have any lines that are shared by 2 sectors and are meant to be the place where you cross from room to room set the Flags to 2S (two-sided and shoot thru) and turn off the Impassable Flag. You will probably want to get rid of any of the Normal/Upper/Lower Textures that are on lines that you walk across (usually, unless you want to create the illusion of walking through a wall.).\par \par \{S2.WAD - Linedef\} Check out Linedef # 1.\par \par Go to \uldb Step 6\uldb0 \v Step_6\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Step 6}
#{\footnote # Step_6}
+{\footnote + AQ:00006}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Step 6\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 To change the way the walls look, select a line or a group of lines and change the Normal texture on some of the Sidedefs. (To go to \uldb line editing mode\uldb0 \v LineDefs_edit_mode\v0 , press \uldb L\uldb0 \v Change_edit_mode_keys\v0 ).\par \par \{S3.WAD - Linedef\} Take a look at Linedefs #0,2, and 3.\par \par Go to \uldb Step 7\uldb0 \v Step_7\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Step 7}
#{\footnote # Step_7}
+{\footnote + AQ:00007}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Step 7\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Change the Floor and Ceiling Textures in a sector. (To go to \uldb sector editing mode\uldb0 \v Sectors_edit_mode\v0 , press \uldb S\uldb0 \v Change_edit_mode_keys\v0 ).\par \par \{s4.wad -Sector\}  Look at Sector #1, compare to the default in sector 0.\par \par Go to \uldb Step 8\uldb0 \v Step_8\v0 .\par \par \page
${\footnote $ Step 8}
#{\footnote # Step_8}
+{\footnote + AQ:00008}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Step 8\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Add a Player1 Start thing. If you want to play cooperatively you will also want to add a Player2, Player3 and Player4 start thing and if you want to play in deathmatch mode you must have a MINIMUM of 4 deathmatch start things. See \uldb Things edit mode\uldb0 \v Things_edit_mode\v0 .\par \par \{s5.wad -Things\}  That's were you start and the direction you're facing.\par \par Go to \uldb Step 9\uldb0 \v Step_9\v0 .\par \par \page
${\footnote $ Step 9}
#{\footnote # Step_9}
+{\footnote + AQ:00009}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Step 9\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Change the type of one of the lines to "Special - Ends level goes to next level." If you want to be able to leave the level you will need an exit. (Even if just to see the deathmatch frag counts!).\par \par \{S6.WAD - Linedefs\} Check out Line 5.  Oh yeah, the texture was changed to one of the SW1xxxx textures so that it looks like a switch too.  Nice touch eh?\par \par Go to \uldb Step 10\uldb0 \v Step_10\v0 .\par \par \page
${\footnote $ Step 10}
#{\footnote # Step_10}
+{\footnote + AQ:00010}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Step 10\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Use \uldb Q\uldb0 \v Quit_key\v0  to quit and save your changes.  Answer Y to the question about building the nodes, etc. (unless you use expert mode, in which case... Why are you reading the tutorial?? ;-)\par \par Go to \uldb Step 11\uldb0 \v Step_11\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Step 11}
#{\footnote # Step_11}
+{\footnote + AQ:00011}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Step 11\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Use Q to quit WinDEU.\par Quit Windows (recommended) or go to a DOS box\par \par Go to \uldb Step 12\uldb0 \v Step_12\v0  \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Step 12}
#{\footnote # Step_12}
+{\footnote + AQ:00012}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Step 12\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Fire up doom and try it out! In your doom directory, type:\par \par \li360 DOOM -FILE yourfile.WAD\par \pard \par \li720 If you are working on a level higher than E1M1 you can go straight there by using IDCLEVxy  where x is the episode and y is the mission #.\par \pard \par Go to \uldb Step 13\uldb0 \v Step_13\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Step 13}
#{\footnote # Step_13}
+{\footnote + AQ:00013}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Step 13\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 To record a demo of your level (a .LMP file) type this:\par \par \li360 DOOM -DEVPARM -WARP e m -SKILL s -RECORD demofile -FILE yourfile.WAD\par \pard \par You must NOT type the .LMP extention and you MUST type the .WAD extension. 'e' is for Episode (1, 2 or 3), 'm' is for mission (1 to 9) and 's' is for skill level (1 to 5). If you die before the end, press SPACE to end the recording and go back to DOS.\par \par Go to \uldb Step 14\uldb0 \v Step_14\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Step 14}
#{\footnote # Step_14}
+{\footnote + AQ:00014}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Step 14\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 To play back your demo, type this:\par \par \li360 DOOM -PLAYDEMO demofile -FILE yourfile.WAD \par \pard \par Go to \uldb [9] Tutorial\uldb0 \v Tutorial\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Adding a door}
#{\footnote # Adding_a_door}
+{\footnote + AP:00002}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Adding a door\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \fi-720 \li720 \cf0 Note:\tab This function is now done automaticaly by WinDEU. See \uldb Make door from Sector\uldb0 \v Make_door_from_Sector\v0 .\par \pard \par Adding a *DOOR*.  We'll open it for you...\par \par Go to \uldb Door step 1\uldb0 \v Door_step_1\v0  \par \page
${\footnote $ Door step 1}
#{\footnote # Door_step_1}
+{\footnote + AS:00001}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Door step 1\par \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 The \uldb split linedef\uldb0 \v Split_LineDef_and_Add_new_Vertex\v0  feature can be used to add a vertex which can then be dragged to where you want the edge of the door to be.  This is helpful if you decide after you build the sector that you want to have a door.  If you planned ahead you won't need this.\par \par Add some vertices & lines to build a new sector which will later become the door.\par \par You may want to add some more vertices and lines to build a sector on the other side of the door so you've got somewhere to go once the door is open.\par \par \{s7.wad - linedefs and sectors\}\par \par There's no door here yet, but it'll be coming soon.\par Split line 0 into lines 0 & 8.\par Added lines 9,10,11.  Used lines 0,9,10,& 11 to add sector 2\par (Sector 2 will become the door in the next file.)\par Added lines 12,13,14.  Added sector 3 on lines 10,12,13,& 14.\par Sector 3 is the room on the other side.     \par \par Go to \uldb Door step 2\uldb0 \v Door_step_2\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Door step 2}
#{\footnote # Door_step_2}
+{\footnote + AS:00002}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Door step 2\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 The "Normal" vector of the lines (The side of the arrow with the line sticking out of it) must be on the 'outside' of the door.\par \par Change the \uldb type of the linedefs\uldb0 \v Types_of_LineDefs\v0  on the front and back of the door to a DOOR type.  1 DR Open door - closes after 5 seconds is the best one for beginners, you'll figure out other types of doors later.\par \par Change the first sidedef (see \uldb Editing linedef\uldb0 \v LineDefs_edit_mode\v0 ) of the front & back of the door to have an Upper Texture only (NO Normal or Lower Texture) .  If you want it to be obvious, make it a texture that looks like a door.\par \par Change the ceiling height (see \uldb Editing sector\uldb0 \v Sectors_edit_mode\v0 ) of the door sector to the same level as it's floor.  It will rise until it's just below the height of the lowest adjacent ceiling.\par \par Change the ceiling texture of the door sector to something that looks like the bottom of the door.\par \par On the linedefs on the sides of the door that are the door frame, set the \uldb flags\uldb0 \v LINEDEF_ATTRIBUTES\v0  to Lo (lower texture unpegged.) This will keep them from moving when the door goes up.  Also, you should set the Normal texture to something that looks like a door frame.\par \par \{s8.wad - linedefs and sectors\}\par \par Linedefs 0 & 10, changed type to Door - DR open door\par Changed first sidedefs upper texture (BIGDOOR2).\par Set sector #2 Ceiling height to the same as its' floor.\par Changed ceiling texture (FLAT20).\par Changed lines 9 & 11 texture (DOORTRAK).\par Set 9 & 11 to type Lower Unpegged.\par Tada!  A working door!\par \par Go to \uldb Adding a stairway\uldb0 \v Adding_a_stairway\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Adding a stairway}
#{\footnote # Adding_a_stairway}
+{\footnote + AP:00003}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Adding a stairway\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Perhaps you can buy a Stairway to Heaven, but you'll have to build the *STAIRWAY* to Hell!\par \par Go to \uldb Stairway step 1\uldb0 \v Stairway_step_1\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Stairway step 1}
#{\footnote # Stairway_step_1}
+{\footnote + AT:00001}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Stairway step 1\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Add the linedefs and sectors that will become the stairs.\par \par \par Go to \uldb Stairway step 2\uldb0 \v Stairway_step_2\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Stairway step 2}
#{\footnote # Stairway_step_2}
+{\footnote + AT:00002}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Stairway step 2\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Individually change the floor heights of each stair sector. Change them in units of 8 or 16 for best results (24 is the maximum for a stair you can climb, but it looks pretty tall). Increment for stairs going up, decrement for stairs going down. (obviously). See also \uldb Distribute Sector floor heights\uldb0 \v Distribute_Sector_floor_heights\v0  and \uldb Distributes Sector ceiling heights\uldb0 \v Distributes_Sector_ceiling_heights\v0 .\par \par Go to \uldb Stairway step 3\uldb0 \v Stairway_step_3\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Stairway step 3}
#{\footnote # Stairway_step_3}
+{\footnote + AT:00003}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Stairway step 3\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 For sidedefs facing a sector that has a floor height lower than its floor, set the lower texture to something that looks like a stair.\par \par Go to \uldb Stairway step 4\uldb0 \v Stairway_step_4\v0 .\par \par \page
${\footnote $ Stairway step 4}
#{\footnote # Stairway_step_4}
+{\footnote + AT:00004}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Stairway step 4\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 If the ceiling height is changed set the upper texture of sidedefs facing sectors with higher cielings.\par \par \{s9.wad - linedefs, sectors\}\par \par Set individual floor heights on sectors 4,5,6,7,8\par Set ceiling height on sectors 4,5,6,7,8,9\par Set first sidedef lower texture on lines 13,16,19, & 22.\par Set seconds sidedef upper texture on line 13.\par \par Also, for demonstration set the floor height on sector 9 lower so that you could 'fall' down into it and not be able to get out because 64 units is too tall to climb. Because sector 9 is lower, set a lower texture on the second sidedef of line 28.\par \par Go to \uldb Adding a lift\uldb0 \v Adding_a_lift\v0 \par \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Adding a lift}
#{\footnote # Adding_a_lift}
+{\footnote + AP:00004}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Adding a lift\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \fi-720 \li720 \cf0 Note:\tab This function is now done automaticaly by WinDEU. See \uldb Make lift from Sector\uldb0 \v Make_lift_from_Sector\v0 .\par \pard \par \par Hey buddy!  Need a *LIFT*?. This functino\par \par Go to \uldb Lift step 1\uldb0 \v Lift_step_1\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Lift step 1}
#{\footnote # Lift_step_1}
+{\footnote + AU:00001}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Lift step 1\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 It's best to make the linedefs on the sides of the lift that you can walk across have their "Normal" sides (the one with the little line sticking out) on the outside of the lift.\par \par Go to \uldb Lift step 2\uldb0 \v Lift_step_2\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Lift step 2}
#{\footnote # Lift_step_2}
+{\footnote + AU:00002}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Lift step 2\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Change the TYPE of the linedef facing the sector with the lower floor height to "Raise lift & switch to lower...".\par \par Go to \uldb Lift step 3\uldb0 \v Lift_step_3\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Lift step 3}
#{\footnote # Lift_step_3}
+{\footnote + AU:00003}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Lift step 3\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Set the TYPE of the linedef facing the sector with the same floor height to "WR - lower lift...".\par \par Go to \uldb Lift step 4\uldb0 \v Lift_step_4\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Lift step 4}
#{\footnote # Lift_step_4}
+{\footnote + AU:00004}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Lift step 4\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Verify or set the floor height of the lift sector to its maximum height.\par \par Go to \uldb Lift step 5\uldb0 \v Lift_step_5\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Lift step 5}
#{\footnote # Lift_step_5}
+{\footnote + AU:00005}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Lift step 5\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Set the \uldb flags\uldb0 \v LINEDEF_ATTRIBUTES\v0  for linedefs on the side (that you don't cross) to Upper texture unpegged.\par \par Go to \uldb Lift step 6\uldb0 \v Lift_step_6\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Lift step 6}
#{\footnote # Lift_step_6}
+{\footnote + AU:00006}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Lift step 6\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Set a lower texture on the sidedef of the linedef which will be higher than the lift when it is down.\par \par Go to \uldb Lift step 7\uldb0 \v Lift_step_7\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Lift step 7}
#{\footnote # Lift_step_7}
+{\footnote + AU:00007}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Lift step 7\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Set a floor texture on the lift sector to something that looks like a lift floor. (optional, but it looks good).\par \par Go to \uldb Lift step 8\uldb0 \v Lift_step_8\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Lift step 8}
#{\footnote # Lift_step_8}
+{\footnote + AU:00008}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Lift step 8\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Assign the lift sector a linedef TAG number.  Use the lowest available tag number.\par \par Go to \uldb Lift step 9\uldb0 \v Lift_step_9\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Lift step 9}
#{\footnote # Lift_step_9}
+{\footnote + AU:00009}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Lift step 9\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Assign the linedefs with the Lift TYPES the sector TAG number that you assigned to the lift sector.\par \par \{s10.wad - linedefs, sectors)\par \par Flipped linedef 28.\par Set linedef 28 type to Raise lift...\par Set linedef 25 type to Lower lift...\par Set linedefs 26 & 27 flags to upper texture unpegged.\par Set floor height of sector 9 to it's up position.\par Set floor texture of sector 9 to STEP2.\par Set lower texture of linedef 25 second sidedef.\par Assigned TAG #1 to sector 9.\par Assigned TAG #1 to linedefs 25 & 28.\par \par Go to \uldb Adding a transporter\uldb0 \v Adding_a_transporter\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Adding a transporter}
#{\footnote # Adding_a_transporter}
+{\footnote + AP:00005}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Adding a transporter\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 * TRANSPORTER pad, 1 to beam up! *\par \par \{for the next few examples you will want to also try out the WADs to see how they look in DOOM\}\par \par Go to \uldb Transporter step 1\uldb0 \v Transporter_step_1\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Transporter step 1}
#{\footnote # Transporter_step_1}
+{\footnote + AV:00001}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Transporter step 1\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 First create two sectors. One has to be a multiple of 64x64 units. It will be the 'pad' and has to be aligned on a vertex with a multiple of 64 (use \uldb G\uldb0 \v Grid_keys\v0  for grid to align the vertex points) or else the texture for the pad will be offset and will look bad. \{T1.WAD\}\par \par Go to \uldb Transporter step 2\uldb0 \v Transporter_step_2\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Transporter step 2}
#{\footnote # Transporter_step_2}
+{\footnote + AV:00002}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Transporter step 2\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Make sure the lines on the side of the pad are the right way, the player will transport when he travels from side 1 to side 2 of the line.\par \par Go to \uldb Transporter step 3\uldb0 \v Transporter_step_3\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Transporter step 3}
#{\footnote # Transporter_step_3}
+{\footnote + AV:00003}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Transporter step 3\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Edit the line type and change it to 97 WR Transport to other sector (Go to line \uldb type\uldb0 \v Types_of_LineDefs\v0 , then special) or 91 W1 if you want it to work only once.\par \par Go to \uldb Transporter step 4\uldb0 \v Transporter_step_4\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Transporter step 4}
#{\footnote # Transporter_step_4}
+{\footnote + AV:00004}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Transporter step 4\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Set the Sector tag number of the lines to an unused number.\par \par Go to \uldb Transporter step 5\uldb0 \v Transporter_step_5\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Transporter step 5}
#{\footnote # Transporter_step_5}
+{\footnote + AV:00005}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Transporter step 5\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Next, you'll need to decide where you want to transport. Select a sector and set the linedef tag to the same as above.\par \par Go to \uldb Transporter step 6\uldb0 \v Transporter_step_6\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Transporter step 6}
#{\footnote # Transporter_step_6}
+{\footnote + AV:00006}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Transporter step 6\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Lastly, add a transporter exit thing somewhere in the destination sector.\par \par Go to \uldb Texture alignment basis\uldb0 \v Texture_alignment_basis\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Texture alignment basis}
#{\footnote # Texture_alignment_basis}
+{\footnote + AP:00006}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Texture alignment basis\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \fi-720 \li720 \cf0 Note:\tab This function is now done automaticaly by WinDEU. See \uldb Align textures Y offset\uldb0 \v Align_textures_Y_offset\v0 .\par \pard \par Ok, now we're cooking!  Let's make everything look good!\par \par \pard \tx360 \fi-360 \li360 1.\tab \{T2.WAD\} is the same as above, but with textures aligned. Now you know why I took that weird texture!\par \pard \par \pard \tx360 \fi-360 \li360 2.\tab Look at Sidedef #2 & #5 (first sidedefs of lindedefs #2 & #5). You'll see that they have a texture X alignment. \par \pard \par \pard \tx360 \fi-360 \li360 3.\tab Here's how to figure it out: go to maximum zoom (press + a few times), then display the smallest grid (press SHIFT-G once). Each square of the grid is 8 alignment points. To move a texture to the left, X needs to be positive and to move it to the right, X has to be negative. The way you have to look at it is taking the wall itself and moving it over (or behind) the other one as to blend the two together.\par \pard \par \pard \tx360 \fi-360 \li360 4.\tab So, if you look at sidedefs #2 and #5, you'll see that #2 has an X offset of -64 and #5 of +64.\par \pard \par Go to \uldb Complex texture alignment\uldb0 \v Complex_texture_alignment\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Complex texture alignment}
#{\footnote # Complex_texture_alignment}
+{\footnote + AP:00007}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Complex texture alignment\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \fi-720 \li720 \cf0 Note:\tab This function is now done automaticaly by WinDEU. See \uldb Align textures Y offset\uldb0 \v Align_textures_Y_offset\v0 , \uldb Align textures X offset\uldb0 \v Align_textures_X_offset\v0 .\par \pard \par \par Line up!  (Texture Alignment) \par \par Now, we do some heavy math stuff! Aligning vertically for stairs and more complex horizontal alignments.\par \par \pard \tx360 \fi-360 \li360 1.\tab \{A1.WAD\} is a test WAD with two stairs in it. One has varying ceiling heights and the other has the same ceiling. This one needs a LOT of work!\par \pard \par \pard \tx360 \fi-360 \li360 2.\tab \{A2.WAD\} is the aligned one. Looks a lot better hey! Here's how it's done. NOTE that this is only for NORMAL textures, not UPPER or LOWER textures, they are aligned in a different way.\par \pard \par \pard \tx360 \fi-360 \li360 3.\tab For starters, go back to A1, you'll notice that when the ceiling is the same height, the textures align (vertically that is!) and that's because DOOM displays a texture starting from the top left of the panel. So, to align a texture vertically all you need to know is the difference in ceiling height. \{In A2.WAD look at the Y offset of linedefs #5, #13, #12 and #3\}.\par \pard \par \pard \tx360 \fi-360 \li360 4.\tab There's a problem with aligning all these linedefs because you'd need to be able to align beyond the -100 to 100 limit. The trick is to do a little math (I know, yuck!). If you need to align a texture by 128 points, then you'll need to move one 100 points one way and the other -28 the other. \{In A2.WAD look at the X offsets of linedefs #14 and #0\}.\par \pard \par \pard \tx360 \fi-360 \li360 5.\tab Another problem is when the linedef is longer than the size of a given wall. In the case of SKY2, it's 256 points wide and the length of the wall composed of linedefs #2, #4, #11 and #10 is a total of 464 points, so SKY1 fits almost twice. If you look at the X offsets for the above lines, you'll probably say: "How the heck did he get those!?!?" It's really elementary math skills!\par \pard \par \pard \tx360 \fi-360 \li360 6.\tab Here's how it's done; first, lines #2, #4 and #11 together are 256 points long, so lines #2 and # 10 will have the exact same offset. Next, if you left line #2 with an offset of 0, you would need to move line #4 by 128 (or -128 which is the same because the texture is 256) and line #4 by 128+64=192 (or -64 which is 192-256). You can't do that! Remember, you have a limit of -100 to 100, so 128 (or -128) will not do, so we need to use two lines to do it. If you move line #2 by -100, then you only need to move line #4 by 28 (-100 - 28 = -128) and line #11 by 92 (28 + 64 = 92). Then all you do is set line #10 the same as line #2 which is -100.\par \pard \par \pard \tx360 \fi-360 \li360 7.\tab I know it looks really complicated, but it really is simple once you know how to do it (I know, I sound like your fifth grade math teacher!). Anyways, DEU may eventually have an align texture feature, so you can wait until then, but if you want to be in the hall of fame of WADs, you'll need to align those textures NOW!\par \pard \par Go to \uldb Upper and lower textures alignment\uldb0 \v Upper_and_lower_textures_alignment\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ Upper and lower textures alignment}
#{\footnote # Upper_and_lower_textures_alignment}
+{\footnote + AP:00008}
\keepn \f12 \fs24 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i Upper and lower textures alignment\par \cf1 \fs24 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 Wow! I want more! OK, here's the best you can do to align the textures for windows and secret doors...\par \par \pard \tx360 \fi-360 \li360 1.\tab Look at W1.WAD (run DOOM with it, type 'doom -file w1.wad', and start a new Episode 2 game). Go to each side of the window one side is aligned and the other is not. Now look at each of the secret doors, one is aligned vertically and the other is not. Can you figure out how to align UPPER textures? OK, I'll tell you, but I won't explain the X offset alignement, I just did in the last few paragraphs!\par \pard \par \{Check the MAP (press TAB) when running DOOM with W1.WAD, you can only see a door (yellow line) on the WEST side. The Secret bit is set for that Linedef, also the Sector behind the EAST door is also of type "secret".\}\par \par \pard \tx360 \fi-360 \li360 2.\tab First, for windows, you'll just need to set the flag "Upper Texture is Unpegged" because normally an UPPER texture is drawn from the bottom left corner up (remember a NORMAL texture is drawn from the TOP left corner down) and changing this flag will make it drawn just like a NORMAL texture. This will align the texture vertically (assuming the ceiling height is the same as the adjoining walls).\par \pard \par \pard \tx360 \fi-360 \li360 3.\tab Second, for doors, you don't want to set the "unpegged" flag because the door would not look right when oppening, so you want to adjust the texture with an offset. In W1, the ceiling is 100 high and STARTAN3 is 128 high, so you want the Y offset to be -28 (128 - 100 = -28).\par \pard \par \pard \tx360 \fi-360 \li360 4.\tab Third, you'll want to know how to align the bottom part of a window. Well, unless somebody proves otherwise, it can't be done. Sure, you can use textures that LOOK aligned (because of the Window height and texture type) but you can't REALLY do it. Here's why: LOWER textures are drawn the exact same way as NORMAL textures (from TOP left corner down) unless you set the "Lower texture is unpegged" flag in which case it starts from wherever the upper texture ended. Look at the WEST side of the window in W1.WAD (the side that isn't aligned). I set the upper and lower textures to unpegged. See the difference? The LOWER texture of the "aligned" side is the same as the UPPER texture there, but on the "un-aligned" side, it is the continuty of the UPPER texture.\par \pard \par Go to \uldb Tutorial\uldb0 \v Tutorial\v0 \par \par \page
${\footnote $ [10] Tips}
#{\footnote # Tips}
+{\footnote + 00011}
K{\footnote K Tips}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i [10] Tips\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 This section includes tips on how to use the WinDEU level editor, and a sub-section about the limits of Doom/Windeu.\par \par See:\par \tab \uldb Editing tips\uldb0 \v EDITING_TIPS\v0 \par \tab \uldb Doom / WinDEU limits\uldb0 \v DOOM_LIMITS\v0 \par \f10 \par \page
${\footnote $ [10.1] Generic editing tips}
#{\footnote # Editing_tips}
+{\footnote + AW:00001}
K{\footnote K Editing tips}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i [10.1] Generic editing tips\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \cf0 SAVE YOUR WORK!\par \par \li396 SAVE YOUR WORK OFTEN (with different file names) and test it every so often to make sure it's looking like you want it to.  DEU makes a .BAK file but if things get really messed and you saved twice with the same file name you may lose your work.\par \pard \par Inserting Linedefs\par \par \li396 When marking vertices to add linedefs, do so in CLOCKWISE order. This will make sure that the Normal (or first) side of the line is on the inside of your sector.  DEU likes this better and  so will you!\par \pard \par \li396 Use clockwise order if you want to add a new sector outside (not inside any sector).  This is the case most of the time. Use anticlockwise order if you want to add an obstacle inside an existing sector (i.e. all first sidedefs will be on the outside of the area you just defined).\par \pard \par Texture Alignment\par \par \li360 All the texture sizes (Ceilings, Floors, and Walls) are based on multiples of 8 pixels.   You can use the grid feature to help align the length of linedefs.  You might even try mathematics (I know, it's scarier than Doom... ;)  See the TUTOR.DOC file for an example of using the texture alignment fields.\par \pard \par Tag Numbers\par \par \li360 Sectors may have a Tag number associated with them.  A linedef that has the same tag number can be used to activate the sector by walking across it or pressing it like a switch. The tag numbers are an independant table that is used to link the actions of linedefs and sectors together.  The fact that the Tag numbers are independant means that a single tag number can multiple lindefs to a sector.\par \pard \par \par Things (what order)\par \par \li360 Add a player 1 start as soon as you've built your first sector.  WAIT until your done building all the sectors before you add enemies and weapons.  This way you won't  have to waste time killing them every time you go to test out your creation.  Decorations should also come before the enemies.  (This WILL save you time, but, if you feel the need to kill something every time you test your level, go ahead and satisfy your desire for carnage.)\par \pard \par \par Vertices, Linedefs, and Sectors... suggested order to do them in.\par \par \li360 First add all major rooms using F9 menu.  Then use F9 menu to insert obstacles or different areas inside these rooms.  Connect the rooms by selecting two vertices from each (in clockwise order) and press "Ins" twice.  Now go ahead and add more walls or sectors using the vertices method.  Drag some walls on top of some others if you want to join two rooms.  Then set the textures of walls and ceilings and height of sectors.  Add a player 1 start thing and compile it and take a walk through it.  Then go back and fix things and add decorations.  Add enemies last so you don't have to deal with them every time.  Remember to add enemies based upon difficulty level.\par \pard \par \par Stairs\par \par \li360 The maximum difference between floor heights for stairs is somewhere close to 24.  Typical values for the height differ by 16 units.  (Most of id's stairs use 16, although some of id's stairs go by 8.)\par \pard \par \par General\par \par \li360  Good things come to those who.... WORK!\par \pard \par \li360 It takes TIME to build a good wad file.  The first really cool wads we've seen produced with DEU took in excess of 15 hours. Granted, that included time to learn the latest release of DEU, but we expect that it will take somewhere between 620 hours to churn out a really good level.   Don't be discouraged.  You can start out with a simple level and expand on it as time permits.\par \pard \par \li360 Theme!  Theme I tell you!  And a little continuity wouldn't hurt either. We've made a couple wads without any continuity and found that they looked, well... amateur.  The sample levels in the tutorial have little continuity and are in no way meant to demonstrate what a good level looks like, rather, these were built to show how things work.\par \pard \par Including your own demo in a PWAD.\par \par \li360  > doom devparm record E1M1 file E1M1.WAD\par  > deu\par  > R E1M1.WAD\par  > I E1M1.LMP DEMO1\par  > R DEMO1.WAD\par  > G MYLEVEL.WAD\par  > doom file MYLEVEL.WAD\par \pard \par \par Special Tag Numbers\par \par \li360 The only special tag number we know of yet is tag number 666. It is used to lower a sector after all the Barons of Hell have been eliminated on E1M8.  We haven't tested to see if that works on any other ExMx levels.  Let us know!\par \pard \par \par Death of Bosses ends level\par \par \li360 This is only true at the End Levels (ExM8).  When all of the bosses that are tougher than a baron of hell die, the level ends.\par \pard \par \par Exits for Single, Coop, and Multiplayer\par \par \li360 It IS possible to create a level suitable for singleplayer games AND protect the exit in Deathmatch games so that players must cooperate in order to exit.  There are many ways to do this, and most of them are based upon when Things are available (See the When Appears item in Things mode).\par \pard \par \li360 One simple way is to have two doors that lead to the exit. In multiplayer: Door "A" could be blocked by having a lamp in front of it. Door "B" would require a distant switch to be pulled so that the player pulling the switch couldn't reach it by themselves. In single player (and Cooperative) mode Door "A" would not be blocked by any object nor require any switch to be pulled.  This is just one of many possible ways to make a wad playable by a single player but require cooperation to exit in Deathmatch mode.\par \pard \par \page
${\footnote $ [10.2] Doom / WinDEU limits}
#{\footnote # DOOM_LIMITS}
+{\footnote + AW:00002}
K{\footnote K Doom / WinDEU limits}
K{\footnote K  limits}
\keepn \f12 \fs22 \f12 \cf5 \fs36 \b \i [10.2] Doom / WinDEU limits\par \cf1 \fs22 \b0 \i0 \pard \f12 \fs24 \pard \li360 \cf0 Maximum size of a wad file created with WinDEU: This depends on how much windows virtual memory you can free up.  The more free ram, the bigger the WAD can be.  You shouldn't have problem with 2Mb of physical memory.\par \pard \par \li360 X,Y locations of vertices:  somewhere in excess of 10,000 to  +10,000.  It could be 32768 to + 32767.  Note however that WinDEU might get a little weird if your vertices are too far apart.\par \pard \par \li360 Maximum number of sector tags: 255\par \pard \par \li360 Maximum number of enemies/things that can be displayed at a  time: Somewhere near 64.  We've seen that when there are too many some of them will disappear and reappear.  This looks really bad.  \par \pard \par \li360 The doom engine (v1.2) can handle floors & cielings from 32768 to  +32768 as long as the difference in a sector is not more than 1000. DEU imposes a limit of 16384 as a safety feature and will check for the ceiling/floor difference when you run the 'check textures' test.\par \pard \par \li360 The Maximum 2S linedefs that you can see from any point before DOOM engine limit causes HOM (\uldb Hall of Mirrors effect\uldb0 \v HOM_EFFECT\v0 ): Somewhere near 16.\par \pard \par \li360 Maximum stair you can climb: 24 units.\par \pard \par \li360 Minimum floor to ceiling distance that you can walk through:  Near 60 units.\par \pard \par \li360 Minimum wall distance you can squeeze through: 34 units.\par \pard \par \li360 Number of hours playing doom before your spouse (or friend) files a certificate of your death and claims benefits:  Do you really want to find out?  Spend a little quality time with them!\par \pard \par \page
}